---
title: Custom model lifecycle- Document Intelligence 
titleSuffix: Foundry Tools
description: Document Intelligence custom model lifecycle and management guide.
author: laujan
manager: nitinme
ms.service: azure-ai-document-intelligence
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.date: 11/18/2025
ms.author: lajanuar
monikerRange: '>=doc-intel-3.1.0'
---


# Document Intelligence custom model lifecycle

::: moniker range=">=doc-intel-3.1.0"
[!INCLUDE [applies to v4.0 and v3.1](../includes/applies-to-v40-v31.md)]
::: moniker-end

With the v3.1 (GA) and later APIs, custom models introduce a expirationDateTime property that is set for each model trained with the 3.1 API or later. Custom models are dependent on the API version of the Layout API version and the API version of the model build operation. For best results, continue to use the API version the model was trained with for all analyze requests. The guidance applies to all Document Intelligence custom models including extraction and classification models.

## Models trained with GA API version

With the v3.1 API, custom models introduce a new model expiration property. The model is configured to expire two years after its creation for all requests utilizing a GA API to build it. The API version can be the one that the model was originally trained with or a later API version. The following figure illustrates the options when you need to retrain an expiring or expired model.

> Note: The model expiration date for v3.1/4.0 models is only set if the training is done post release of v3.1/v4.0. If the models were created earlier with no expiration date associated with them and were not retrained after v3.1/v4.0, the expiration date will be null. The models with expiration date property will still be available until the API retires. Notification of retirement of any particular GA API version will be communicated at least 3 years before expiration.

:::image type="content" source="../media/model-lifecycle.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to choose an API version and retrain a model.":::

## Models trained with preview API version

For build requests, using a preview API version, the expiration date is set to two years from the date the model is built. Models trained with a preview API shouldn't be used in production and should be retrained once the corresponding GA API version is available. Compatibility between preview API versions and GA API versions isn't always maintained. Models trained with a preview API version are no longer usable the corresponding GA API is available.

## Viewing model expiration date

The GET model API returns the model details including the ```expirationDateTime``` property.

```rest
GET /documentModels/{customModelId}?api-version={apiVersion}
{
  "modelId": "{customModelId}",
  "description": "{customModelDescription}",
  "createdDateTime": "2021-09-24T12:54:35Z",
  "expirationDateTime": "2023-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "apiVersion": "2023-07-31",
  "docTypes": { ... }
}
```

## Retrain a model

To retrain a model with a more recent API version, ensure that the layout results for the documents in your training dataset correspond to the API version of the build model request. For instance, if you plan to build the model with the ```v3.1:2023-07-31``` API version, the corresponding *.ocr.json files in your training dataset should also be generated with the ```v3.1:2023-07-31``` API version. The ocr.json files are generated by running layout on your training dataset. To validate the version of the layout results, check the ```apiVersion``` property in the ```analyzeResult``` of the ocr.json documents.

## Next steps

Learn to create and compose custom models:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
>
> [**Build a custom model**](../how-to-guides/build-a-custom-model.md)  [**Compose custom models**](../how-to-guides/compose-custom-models.md)
