articles/machine-learning/team-data-science-process/explore-data-sql-server.md, before:

---
title: Explore data in SQL Server Virtual Machine on Azure | Microsoft Docs
description: How to explore data that is stored in a SQL Server VM on Azure.
services: machine-learning
documentationcenter: ''
author: bradsev
manager: jhubbard
editor: cgronlun

ms.assetid: ccbb3085-af9e-4ec2-9df2-15dcab261d05
ms.service: machine-learning
ms.workload: data-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/24/2017
ms.author: bradsev

---
# Explore data in SQL Server Virtual Machine on Azure
This document covers how to explore data that is stored in a SQL Server VM on Azure. This can be done by data wrangling using SQL or by using a programming language like Python.

The following **menu** links to topics that describe how to use tools to explore data from various storage environments. This task is a step in the Cortana Analytics Process (CAP).

[!INCLUDE [cap-explore-data-selector](../../../includes/cap-explore-data-selector.md)]

> [!NOTE]
> The sample SQL statements in this document assume that data is in SQL Server. If it isn't, refer to the cloud data science process map to learn how to move your data to SQL Server.
> 
> 

## <a name="sql-dataexploration"></a>Explore SQL data with SQL scripts
Here are a few sample SQL scripts that can be used to explore data stores in SQL Server.

1. Get the count of observations per day
   
    `SELECT CONVERT(date, <date_columnname>) as date, count(*) as c from <tablename> group by CONVERT(date, <date_columnname>)` 
2. Get the levels in a categorical column
   
    `select  distinct <column_name> from <databasename>`
3. Get the number of levels in combination of two categorical columns 
   
    `select <column_a>, <column_b>,count(*) from <tablename> group by <column_a>, <column_b>`
4. Get the distribution for numerical columns
   
    `select <column_name>, count(*) from <tablename> group by <column_name>`

> [!NOTE]
> For a practical example, you can use the [NYC Taxi dataset](http://www.andresmh.com/nyctaxitrips/) and refer to the IPNB titled [NYC Data wrangling using IPython Notebook and SQL Server](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-MachineLearning-DataScience/blob/master/Misc/DataScienceProcess/iPythonNotebooks/machine-Learning-data-science-process-sql-walkthrough.ipynb) for an end-to-end walk-through.
> 
> 

## <a name="python"></a>Explore SQL data with Python
Using Python to explore data and generate features when the data is in SQL Server is similar to processing data in Azure blob using Python, as documented in [Process Azure Blob data in your data science environment](data-blob.md). The data needs to be loaded from the database into a pandas DataFrame and then can be processed further. We document the process of connecting to the database and loading the data into the DataFrame in this section.

The following connection string format can be used to connect to a SQL Server database from Python using pyodbc (replace servername, dbname, username, and password with your specific values):

    #Set up the SQL Azure connection
    import pyodbc    
    conn = pyodbc.connect('DRIVER={SQL Server};SERVER=<servername>;DATABASE=<dbname>;UID=<username>;PWD=<password>')

The [Pandas library](http://pandas.pydata.org/) in Python provides a rich set of data structures and data analysis tools for data manipulation for Python programming. The following code reads the results returned from a SQL Server database into a Pandas data frame:

    # Query database and load the returned results in pandas data frame
    data_frame = pd.read_sql('''select <columnname1>, <cloumnname2>... from <tablename>''', conn)

Now you can work with the Pandas DataFrame as covered in the topic [Process Azure Blob data in your data science environment](data-blob.md).

## Cortana Analytics Process in Action Example
For an end-to-end walkthrough example of the Cortana Analytics Process using a public dataset, see [The Team Data Science Process in action: using SQL Server](sql-walkthrough.md).

Commit message:

updating stale data ingesting and exploration topics

articles/machine-learning/team-data-science-process/explore-data-sql-server.md, after:

---
title: Explore data in SQL Server Virtual Machine on Azure | Microsoft Docs
description: How to explore data that is stored in a SQL Server VM on Azure.
services: machine-learning
documentationcenter: ''
author: bradsev
manager: cgronlun
editor: cgronlun

ms.assetid: ccbb3085-af9e-4ec2-9df2-15dcab261d05
ms.service: machine-learning
ms.workload: data-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 11/09/2017
ms.author: bradsev

---
# Explore data in SQL Server Virtual Machine on Azure
This document covers how to explore data that is stored in a SQL Server VM on Azure. This can be done by data wrangling using SQL or by using a programming language like Python.

The following **menu** links to topics that describe how to use tools to explore data from various storage environments. This task is a step in the Cortana Analytics Process (CAP).

[!INCLUDE [cap-explore-data-selector](../../../includes/cap-explore-data-selector.md)]

> [!NOTE]
> The sample SQL statements in this document assume that data is in SQL Server. If it isn't, refer to the cloud data science process map to learn how to move your data to SQL Server.
> 
> 

## <a name="sql-dataexploration"></a>Explore SQL data with SQL scripts
Here are a few sample SQL scripts that can be used to explore data stores in SQL Server.

1. Get the count of observations per day
   
    `SELECT CONVERT(date, <date_columnname>) as date, count(*) as c from <tablename> group by CONVERT(date, <date_columnname>)` 
2. Get the levels in a categorical column
   
    `select  distinct <column_name> from <databasename>`
3. Get the number of levels in combination of two categorical columns 
   
    `select <column_a>, <column_b>,count(*) from <tablename> group by <column_a>, <column_b>`
4. Get the distribution for numerical columns
   
    `select <column_name>, count(*) from <tablename> group by <column_name>`

> [!NOTE]
> For a practical example, you can use the [NYC Taxi dataset](http://www.andresmh.com/nyctaxitrips/) and refer to the IPNB titled [NYC Data wrangling using IPython Notebook and SQL Server](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-MachineLearning-DataScience/blob/master/Misc/DataScienceProcess/iPythonNotebooks/machine-Learning-data-science-process-sql-walkthrough.ipynb) for an end-to-end walk-through.
> 
> 

## <a name="python"></a>Explore SQL data with Python
Using Python to explore data and generate features when the data is in SQL Server is similar to processing data in Azure blob using Python, as documented in [Process Azure Blob data in your data science environment](data-blob.md). The data needs to be loaded from the database into a pandas DataFrame and then can be processed further. We document the process of connecting to the database and loading the data into the DataFrame in this section.

The following connection string format can be used to connect to a SQL Server database from Python using pyodbc (replace servername, dbname, username, and password with your specific values):

    #Set up the SQL Azure connection
    import pyodbc    
    conn = pyodbc.connect('DRIVER={SQL Server};SERVER=<servername>;DATABASE=<dbname>;UID=<username>;PWD=<password>')

The [Pandas library](http://pandas.pydata.org/) in Python provides a rich set of data structures and data analysis tools for data manipulation for Python programming. The following code reads the results returned from a SQL Server database into a Pandas data frame:

    # Query database and load the returned results in pandas data frame
    data_frame = pd.read_sql('''select <columnname1>, <cloumnname2>... from <tablename>''', conn)

Now you can work with the Pandas DataFrame as covered in the topic [Process Azure Blob data in your data science environment](data-blob.md).

## The Team Data Science Process in action example
For an end-to-end walkthrough example of the Cortana Analytics Process using a public dataset, see [The Team Data Science Process in action: using SQL Server](sql-walkthrough.md).
