articles/machine-learning/how-to-setup-vs-code.md, before:

---
title: Set up Visual Studio Code desktop with the Azure Machine Learning extension
titleSuffix: Azure Machine Learning
description: Learn how to set up the Azure Machine Learning Visual Studio Code extension.
services: machine-learning
ms.reviewer: None
author: s-polly
ms.author: scottpolly
ms.service: azure-machine-learning
ms.subservice: core
ms.date: 03/25/2025
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: devplatv2, build-2023
monikerRange: 'azureml-api-1 || azureml-api-2'
---

# Set up Visual Studio Code desktop with the Azure Machine Learning extension

Learn how to set up the Azure Machine Learning Visual Studio Code extension for your machine learning workflows. You only need to do this setup when using the VS Code desktop application. If you use VS Code for the Web, this is handled for you.

The Azure Machine Learning extension for VS Code provides a user interface to:

- Manage Azure Machine Learning resources (experiments, virtual machines, models, deployments, etc.)
- Develop locally using remote compute instances
- Train machine learning models
- Debug machine learning experiments locally
- Schema-based language support, autocompletion and diagnostics for specification file authoring

## Prerequisites

- Azure subscription. If you don't have one, sign up to try the [free or paid version of Azure Machine Learning](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/azure-account?cid=msft_learn).
- Visual Studio Code. If you don't have it, [install it](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview).
- [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- (Optional) To create resources using the extension, you need to install the CLI (v2). For setup instructions, see [Install, set up, and use the CLI (v2)](how-to-configure-cli.md).
- Clone the community driven repository
    ```bash
        git clone https://github.com/Azure/azureml-examples.git --depth 1
    ```

## Install the extension

1. Open Visual Studio Code.
1. Select **Extensions** icon from the **Activity Bar** to open the Extensions view.
1. In the Extensions view search bar, type "Azure Machine Learning" and select the first extension.
1. Select **Install**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Install Azure Machine Learning VS Code Extension](./media/how-to-setup-vs-code/install-aml-vscode-extension.PNG)

> [!NOTE]
> The Azure Machine Learning VS Code extension uses the CLI (v2) by default. To switch to the 1.0 CLI, set the `azureML.CLI Compatibility Mode` setting in Visual Studio Code to `1.0`. For more information on modifying your settings in Visual Studio, see the [user and workspace settings documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings).

## Sign in to your Azure Account

In order to provision resources and job workloads on Azure, you have to sign in with your Azure account credentials. To assist with account management, Azure Machine Learning automatically installs the Azure Account extension. Visit the following site to [learn more about the Azure Account extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.azure-account).

To sign into your Azure account, select the **Azure: Sign In** button in the bottom right corner on the Visual Studio Code status bar to start the sign in process.

## Choose your default workspace

Choosing a default Azure Machine Learning workspace enables the following when authoring CLI (v2) YAML specification files:

- Schema validation
- Autocompletion
- Diagnostics

If you don't have a workspace, create one. For more information, see [manage Azure Machine Learning resources with the VS Code extension](how-to-manage-resources-vscode.md).

To choose your default workspace, select the **Set Azure Machine Learning Workspace** button on the Visual Studio Code status bar and follow the prompts to set your workspace.

Alternatively, use the `> Azure ML: Set Default Workspace` command in the command palette and follow the prompts to set your workspace.

To open the command palette, Press `Command` and `P` on your keyboard. Then type `> Azure ML: Set Default Workspace`. 

## Next Steps

- [Manage your Azure Machine Learning resources](how-to-manage-resources-vscode.md)
- [Develop on a remote compute instance locally](how-to-launch-vs-code-remote.md)
- [Train an image classification model using the Visual Studio Code extension](tutorial-train-deploy-image-classification-model-vscode.md)
- [Run and debug machine learning experiments locally (CLI v1)](./v1/how-to-debug-visual-studio-code.md)

Commit message:

update date and prerequisites in VS Code setup documentation; enhance clarity and importance of CLI version transition

articles/machine-learning/how-to-setup-vs-code.md, after:

---
title: Set up Visual Studio Code desktop with the Azure Machine Learning extension
titleSuffix: Azure Machine Learning
description: Learn how to set up the Azure Machine Learning Visual Studio Code extension.
services: machine-learning
ms.reviewer: None
author: s-polly
ms.author: scottpolly
ms.service: azure-machine-learning
ms.subservice: core
ms.date: 02/11/2026
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: devplatv2, build-2023, dev-focus
ai-usage: ai-assisted
monikerRange: 'azureml-api-1 || azureml-api-2'
---

# Set up Visual Studio Code desktop with the Azure Machine Learning extension

Learn how to set up the Azure Machine Learning Visual Studio Code extension for your machine learning workflows. You only need to set up this extension when using the VS Code desktop application. If you use VS Code for the Web, this process is handled for you.

The Azure Machine Learning extension for VS Code provides a user interface to:

- Manage Azure Machine Learning resources like experiments, virtual machines, models, and deployments.
- Develop locally by using remote compute instances.
- Train machine learning models.
- Debug machine learning experiments locally.
- Get schema-based language support, autocompletion, and diagnostics for specification file authoring.

## Prerequisites

- Azure subscription. If you don't have one, sign up to try the [free or paid version of Azure Machine Learning](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/purchase-options/azure-account?cid=msft_learn).
- Visual Studio Code. If you don't have it, [install it](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview).
- [Python 3.10 or later](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- (Optional) To create resources by using the extension, install the CLI (v2). For setup instructions, see [Install, set up, and use the CLI (v2)](how-to-configure-cli.md).
- Clone the community driven repository
    ```bash
        git clone https://github.com/Azure/azureml-examples.git --depth 1
    ```

## Install the extension

1. Open Visual Studio Code.
1. Select the **Extensions** icon from the **Activity Bar** to open the Extensions view.
1. In the Extensions view search bar, type "Azure Machine Learning" and select the first extension.
1. Select **Install**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Install Azure Machine Learning VS Code Extension](./media/how-to-setup-vs-code/install-aml-vscode-extension.PNG)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Azure Machine Learning VS Code extension uses the CLI (v2) by default. Support for CLI v1 ends on September 30, 2025. If you're still using CLI v1, transition to CLI v2 as soon as possible. For more information, see [Upgrade to v2](how-to-migrate-from-v1.md).

## Sign in to your Azure Account

To provision resources and job workloads on Azure, sign in by using your Azure account credentials. To help with account management, Azure Machine Learning automatically installs the Azure Account extension. For more information, see [learn more about the Azure Account extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.azure-account).

To sign in to your Azure account, select the **Azure: Sign In** button in the bottom right corner on the Visual Studio Code status bar to start the sign in process.

## Choose your default workspace

When you choose a default Azure Machine Learning workspace, you get the following benefits when you author CLI (v2) YAML specification files:

- Schema validation
- Autocompletion
- Diagnostics

If you don't have a workspace, create one. For more information, see [manage Azure Machine Learning resources with the VS Code extension](how-to-manage-resources-vscode.md).

To choose your default workspace, select the **Set Azure Machine Learning Workspace** button on the Visual Studio Code status bar and follow the prompts to set your workspace.

Alternatively, use the `> Azure ML: Set Default Workspace` command in the command palette and follow the prompts to set your workspace.

To open the command palette, select **View > Command Palette** or press **Ctrl+Shift+P** (**Cmd+Shift+P** on macOS). Then type `Azure ML: Set Default Workspace`. 

## Next Steps

- [Manage your Azure Machine Learning resources](how-to-manage-resources-vscode.md)
- [Develop on a remote compute instance locally](how-to-launch-vs-code-remote.md)
- [Train an image classification model using the Visual Studio Code extension](tutorial-train-deploy-image-classification-model-vscode.md)
- [Debug online endpoints locally in Visual Studio Code](how-to-debug-managed-online-endpoints-visual-studio-code.md)
