articles/machine-learning/prompt-flow/how-to-create-manage-runtime.md, before:

---
title: Create and manage prompt flow runtimes
titleSuffix: Azure Machine Learning
description: Learn how to create and manage prompt flow runtimes in Azure Machine Learning studio.
services: machine-learning
ms.service: machine-learning
ms.subservice: prompt-flow
ms.custom:
  - ignite-2023
ms.topic: how-to
author: cloga
ms.author: lochen
ms.reviewer: lagayhar
ms.date: 09/13/2023
---

# Create and manage prompt flow runtimes in Azure Machine Learning studio

A prompt flow runtime provides computing resources that are required for the application to run, including a Docker image that contains all necessary dependency packages. This reliable and scalable runtime environment enables prompt flow to efficiently execute its tasks and functions for a seamless user experience.

Azure Machine Learning supports the following types of runtimes:

|Runtime type|Underlying compute type|Life cycle management|Customize environment              |
|------------|----------------------|---------------------|---------------------|
|Automatic runtime (preview)        |Serverless compute| Automatic | Easily customize packages|
|Compute instance runtime | Compute instance | Manual | Manually customize via Azure Machine Learning environment|

If you're a new user, we recommend that you use the automatic runtime (preview). You can easily customize the environment by adding packages in the `requirements.txt` file in `flow.dag.yaml` in the flow folder. If you're already familiar with the Azure Machine Learning environment and compute instances, you can use your existing compute instance and environment to build a compute instance runtime.

## Permissions and roles for runtime management

To assign roles, you need to have `owner` or `Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/write` permission on the resource.

For users of the runtime, assign the `AzureML Data Scientist` role in the workspace (if you're using a compute instance as a runtime) or endpoint (if you're using a managed online endpoint as a runtime). To learn more, see [Manage access to an Azure Machine Learning workspace](../how-to-assign-roles.md?view=azureml-api-2&tabs=labeler&preserve-view=true).

Role assignment might take several minutes to take effect.

## Permissions and roles for deployments

After you deploy a prompt flow, the endpoint must be assigned the `AzureML Data Scientist` role to the workspace for successful inferencing. You can do this operation at any time after you create the endpoint.

## Create a runtime on the UI

Before you use Azure Machine Learning studio to create a runtime, make sure that:

- You have the `AzureML Data Scientist` role in the workspace.
- The default data store (usually `workspaceblobstore`) in your workspace is the blob type.
- The working directory (`workspaceworkingdirectory`) exists in the workspace.
- If you use a virtual network for prompt flow, you understand the considerations in [Network isolation in prompt flow](how-to-secure-prompt-flow.md).

### Create an automatic runtime (preview) on a flow page

Automatic is the default option for a runtime. You can start an automatic runtime (preview) by selecting an option from the runtime dropdown list on a flow page.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Automatic runtime is currently in public preview. This preview is provided without a service-level agreement, and we don't recommend it for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities. For more information, see [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/).

- Select **Start**. Start creating an automatic runtime (preview) by using the environment defined in `flow.dag.yaml` in the flow folder on the virtual machine (VM) size where you have a quota in the workspace.

  :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-init.png" alt-text="Screenshot of prompt flow with default settings for starting an automatic runtime on a flow page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-init.png":::

- Select **Start with advanced settings**. In the advanced settings, you can:

  - Customize the VM size that the runtime uses.
  - Customize the idle time, which saves code by deleting the runtime automatically if it isn't in use.
  - Set the user-assigned managed identity. The automatic runtime uses this identity to pull a base image and install packages. Make sure that the user-assigned managed identity has Azure Container Registry pull permission.

    If you don't set this identity, you use the user identity by default. [Learn more about how to create and update user-assigned identities for a workspace](../how-to-identity-based-service-authentication.md#to-create-a-workspace-with-multiple-user-assigned-identities-use-one-of-the-following-methods).

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-automatic-settings.png" alt-text="Screenshot of prompt flow with advanced settings for starting an automatic runtime on a flow page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-automatic-settings.png":::

### Create a compute instance runtime on a runtime page

Before you create a compute instance runtime, make sure that a compute instance is available and running. If you don't have a compute instance, [create one in an Azure Machine Learning workspace](../how-to-create-compute-instance.md).

1. On the page that lists runtimes, select **Create**.
  
   :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the page that lists runtimes and the button for creating a runtime." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add.png":::

1. Select the compute instance that you want to use as a runtime.
  
   :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-runtime-select-ci.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the box for selecting a compute instance." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-runtime-select-ci.png":::

   Because compute instances are isolated by user, only your own compute instances (or the ones assigned to you) are available. To learn more, see [Create and manage an Azure Machine Learning compute instance](../how-to-create-compute-instance.md).

1. Select the **Authenticate** button to authenticate on the compute instance. You need to authenticate only one time per region in six months.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-authentication.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the button for authenticating on a compute instance." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-authentication.png":::

1. Decide whether to create a custom application or select an existing one as a runtime:

   - To create a custom application, under **Custom application**, select **New**.

     :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-runtime-select-custom-application.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the option for creating a new custom application." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-runtime-select-custom-application.png":::

     We recommend this option for most users of prompt flow. The prompt flow system creates a new custom application on a compute instance as a runtime.

     Under **Environment**, if you want to use the default environment, select **Use default environment**. We recommend this choice for new users of prompt flow.

     :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add-default-env.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the option for using a default environment." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add-default-env.png":::

     If you want to install other packages in your project, you should use a custom environment. Select **Use customized environment**, and then choose an environment from the list that appears. To learn how to build your own custom environment, see [Customize an environment with a Docker context for a runtime](how-to-customize-environment-runtime.md#customize-environment-with-docker-context-for-runtime).

     :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add-custom-env.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the option for using a customized environment, along with a list of environments." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add-custom-env.png":::

     > [!NOTE]
     > Your compute instance restarts automatically. Ensure that no tasks or jobs are running on it, because the restart might affect them.

   - To use an existing custom application as a runtime, under **Custom application**, select **Existing**. Then select an application in the **Custom application** box.

     This option is available if you previously created a custom application on a compute instance. [Learn more about how to create and use a custom application as a runtime](how-to-customize-environment-runtime.md#create-a-custom-application-on-compute-instance-that-can-be-used-as-prompt-flow-compute-instance-runtime).

     :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-existing-custom-application-ui.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the option to use an existing custom application and the box for selecting an application." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-existing-custom-application-ui.png":::

## Use a runtime in prompt flow authoring

When you're authoring a flow, you can select and change the runtime from the **Runtime** dropdown list on the upper right of the flow page.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-authoring-dropdown.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a flow page and the dropdown list for selecting a runtime." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-authoring-dropdown.png":::

When you're performing evaluation, you can use the original runtime in the flow or change to a more powerful runtime.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-authoring-bulktest.png" alt-text="Screenshot of runtime details on the wizard page for configuring an evaluation." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-authoring-bulktest.png":::

## Update a runtime on the UI

### Update an automatic runtime (preview) on a flow page

On a flow page, you can use the following options to manage an automatic runtime (preview):

- **Install packages** triggers `pip install -r requirements.txt` in the flow folder. This process can take a few minutes, depending on the packages that you install.
- **Reset** deletes the current runtime and creates a new one with the same environment. If you encounter a package conflict issue, you can try this option.
- **Edit** opens the runtime configuration page, where you can define the VM side and the idle time for the runtime.
- **Stop** deletes the current runtime. If there's no active runtime on the underlying compute, the compute resource is also deleted.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-actions.png" alt-text="Screenshot of actions for an automatic runtime on a flow page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-actions.png":::

You can also customize the environment that you use to run this flow by adding packages in the `requirements.txt` file in the flow folder. After you add more packages in this file, you can choose either of these options:

- **Save and install** triggers `pip install -r requirements.txt` in the flow folder. The process can take a few minutes, depending on the packages that you install.
- **Save only** just saves the `requirements.txt` file. You can install the packages later yourself.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-save-install.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the option to save and install packages for an automatic runtime on a flow page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-save-install.png":::

> [!NOTE]
> You can change the location and even the file name of `requirements.txt`, but be sure to also change it in the `flow.dag.yaml` file in the flow folder.
>
> Don't pin the version of `promptflow` and `promptflow-tools` in `requirements.txt`, because we already include them in the runtime base image.

#### Add packages in a private feed in Azure DevOps

If you want to use a private feed in Azure DevOps, follow these steps:

1. Create a user-assigned managed identity and add this identity in the Azure DevOps organization. To learn more, see [Use service principals and managed identities](/azure/devops/integrate/get-started/authentication/service-principal-managed-identity).

   > [!NOTE]
   > If the **Add Users** button isn't visible, you probably don't have the necessary permissions to perform this action.

1. [Add or update user-assigned identities to a workspace](../how-to-identity-based-service-authentication.md#to-create-a-workspace-with-multiple-user-assigned-identities-use-one-of-the-following-methods).

1. Add `{private}` to your private feed URL. For example, if you want to install `test_package` from `test_feed` in Azure DevOps, add `-i https://{private}@{test_feed_url_in_azure_devops}` in `requirements.txt`:

   ```txt
   -i https://{private}@{test_feed_url_in_azure_devops}
   test_package
   ```

1. Specify the user-assigned managed identity in **Start with advanced settings** if automatic runtime isn't running, or use the **Edit** button if automatic runtime is running.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-advanced-setting-msi.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the toggle for using a workspace user-assigned managed identity. " lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-advanced-setting-msi.png":::

#### Change the base image for automatic runtime (preview)

By default, we use the latest prompt flow image as the base image. If you want to use a different base image, you can [build a custom one](how-to-customize-environment-runtime.md#customize-environment-with-docker-context-for-runtime). Then, put the new base image under `environment` in the `flow.dag.yaml` file in the flow folder. To use the new base image, you need to reset the runtime via the `reset` command. This process takes several minutes as it pulls the new base image and reinstalls packages.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-automatic-image-flow-dag.png" alt-text="Screenshot of actions for customizing an environment for an automatic runtime on a flow page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-automatic-image-flow-dag.png":::

```yaml
environment:
    image: <your-custom-image>
    python_requirements_txt: requirements.txt
```

### Update a compute instance runtime on a runtime page

We regularly update our base image (`mcr.microsoft.com/azureml/promptflow/promptflow-runtime-stable`) to include the latest features and bug fixes. We recommend that you update your runtime to the [latest version](https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/azureml/promptflow/promptflow-runtime-stable/tags/list) if possible.

Every time you open the page for runtime details, we check whether there are new versions of the runtime. If new versions are available, a notification appears at the top of the page. You can also manually check the latest version by selecting the **Check version** button.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-update-env-notification.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the page for runtime details, with the button for checking the runtime version." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-update-env-notification.png":::

To get the best experience and performance, try to keep your runtime up to date. On the page for runtime details, select the **Update** button. On the **Edit compute instance runtime** pane, you can update the environment for your runtime. If you select **Use default environment**, the system tries to update your runtime to the latest version.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-update-env.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the pane for editing a compute instance runtime and the option for using the default environment." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-update-env.png":::

If you select **Use customized environment**, you first need to rebuild the environment by using the latest prompt flow image. Then update your runtime with the new custom environment.

## Next steps

- [Develop a standard flow](how-to-develop-a-standard-flow.md)
- [Develop a chat flow](how-to-develop-a-chat-flow.md)

Commit message:

compute instance runtime to automatic runtime

articles/machine-learning/prompt-flow/how-to-create-manage-runtime.md, after:

---
title: Create and manage prompt flow runtimes
titleSuffix: Azure Machine Learning
description: Learn how to create and manage prompt flow runtimes in Azure Machine Learning studio.
services: machine-learning
ms.service: machine-learning
ms.subservice: prompt-flow
ms.custom:
  - ignite-2023
ms.topic: how-to
author: cloga
ms.author: lochen
ms.reviewer: lagayhar
ms.date: 09/13/2023
---

# Create and manage prompt flow runtimes in Azure Machine Learning studio

A prompt flow runtime provides computing resources that are required for the application to run, including a Docker image that contains all necessary dependency packages. This reliable and scalable runtime environment enables prompt flow to efficiently execute its tasks and functions for a seamless user experience.

Azure Machine Learning supports the following types of runtimes:

|Runtime type|Underlying compute type|Life cycle management|Customize environment              |
|------------|----------------------|---------------------|---------------------|
|Automatic runtime (preview)        |Serverless compute| Automatic | Easily customize packages|
|Compute instance runtime | Compute instance | Manual | Manually customize via Azure Machine Learning environment|

If you're a new user, we recommend that you use the automatic runtime (preview). You can easily customize the environment by adding packages in the `requirements.txt` file in `flow.dag.yaml` in the flow folder. If you're already familiar with the Azure Machine Learning environment and compute instances, you can use your existing compute instance and environment to build a compute instance runtime.

## Permissions and roles for runtime management

To assign roles, you need to have `owner` or `Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/write` permission on the resource.

For users of the runtime, assign the `AzureML Data Scientist` role in the workspace (if you're using a compute instance as a runtime) or endpoint (if you're using a managed online endpoint as a runtime). To learn more, see [Manage access to an Azure Machine Learning workspace](../how-to-assign-roles.md?view=azureml-api-2&tabs=labeler&preserve-view=true).

Role assignment might take several minutes to take effect.

## Permissions and roles for deployments

After you deploy a prompt flow, the endpoint must be assigned the `AzureML Data Scientist` role to the workspace for successful inferencing. You can do this operation at any time after you create the endpoint.

## Create a runtime on the UI

Before you use Azure Machine Learning studio to create a runtime, make sure that:

- You have the `AzureML Data Scientist` role in the workspace.
- The default data store (usually `workspaceblobstore`) in your workspace is the blob type.
- The working directory (`workspaceworkingdirectory`) exists in the workspace.
- If you use a virtual network for prompt flow, you understand the considerations in [Network isolation in prompt flow](how-to-secure-prompt-flow.md).

### Create an automatic runtime (preview) on a flow page

Automatic is the default option for a runtime. You can start an automatic runtime (preview) by selecting an option from the runtime dropdown list on a flow page.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Automatic runtime is currently in public preview. This preview is provided without a service-level agreement, and we don't recommend it for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities. For more information, see [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/).

- Select **Start**. Start creating an automatic runtime (preview) by using the environment defined in `flow.dag.yaml` in the flow folder on the virtual machine (VM) size where you have a quota in the workspace.

  :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-init.png" alt-text="Screenshot of prompt flow with default settings for starting an automatic runtime on a flow page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-init.png":::

- Select **Start with advanced settings**. In the advanced settings, you can:

  - Customize the VM size that the runtime uses.
  - Customize the idle time, which saves code by deleting the runtime automatically if it isn't in use.
  - Set the user-assigned managed identity. The automatic runtime uses this identity to pull a base image and install packages. Make sure that the user-assigned managed identity has Azure Container Registry pull permission.

    If you don't set this identity, you use the user identity by default. [Learn more about how to create and update user-assigned identities for a workspace](../how-to-identity-based-service-authentication.md#to-create-a-workspace-with-multiple-user-assigned-identities-use-one-of-the-following-methods).

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-automatic-settings.png" alt-text="Screenshot of prompt flow with advanced settings for starting an automatic runtime on a flow page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-automatic-settings.png":::

### Create a compute instance runtime on a runtime page

Before you create a compute instance runtime, make sure that a compute instance is available and running. If you don't have a compute instance, [create one in an Azure Machine Learning workspace](../how-to-create-compute-instance.md).

1. On the page that lists runtimes, select **Create**.
  
   :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the page that lists runtimes and the button for creating a runtime." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add.png":::

1. Select the compute instance that you want to use as a runtime.
  
   :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-runtime-select-ci.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the box for selecting a compute instance." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-runtime-select-ci.png":::

   Because compute instances are isolated by user, only your own compute instances (or the ones assigned to you) are available. To learn more, see [Create and manage an Azure Machine Learning compute instance](../how-to-create-compute-instance.md).

1. Select the **Authenticate** button to authenticate on the compute instance. You need to authenticate only one time per region in six months.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-authentication.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the button for authenticating on a compute instance." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-authentication.png":::

1. Decide whether to create a custom application or select an existing one as a runtime:

   - To create a custom application, under **Custom application**, select **New**.

     :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-runtime-select-custom-application.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the option for creating a new custom application." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-runtime-select-custom-application.png":::

     We recommend this option for most users of prompt flow. The prompt flow system creates a new custom application on a compute instance as a runtime.

     Under **Environment**, if you want to use the default environment, select **Use default environment**. We recommend this choice for new users of prompt flow.

     :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add-default-env.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the option for using a default environment." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add-default-env.png":::

     If you want to install other packages in your project, you should use a custom environment. Select **Use customized environment**, and then choose an environment from the list that appears. To learn how to build your own custom environment, see [Customize an environment with a Docker context for a runtime](how-to-customize-environment-runtime.md#customize-environment-with-docker-context-for-runtime).

     :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add-custom-env.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the option for using a customized environment, along with a list of environments." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-runtime-list-add-custom-env.png":::

     > [!NOTE]
     > Your compute instance restarts automatically. Ensure that no tasks or jobs are running on it, because the restart might affect them.

   - To use an existing custom application as a runtime, under **Custom application**, select **Existing**. Then select an application in the **Custom application** box.

     This option is available if you previously created a custom application on a compute instance. [Learn more about how to create and use a custom application as a runtime](how-to-customize-environment-runtime.md#create-a-custom-application-on-compute-instance-that-can-be-used-as-prompt-flow-compute-instance-runtime).

     :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-existing-custom-application-ui.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the option to use an existing custom application and the box for selecting an application." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-ci-existing-custom-application-ui.png":::

## Use a runtime in prompt flow authoring

When you're authoring a flow, you can select and change the runtime from the **Runtime** dropdown list on the upper right of the flow page.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-authoring-dropdown.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a flow page and the dropdown list for selecting a runtime." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-authoring-dropdown.png":::

When you're performing evaluation, you can use the original runtime in the flow or change to a more powerful runtime.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-authoring-bulktest.png" alt-text="Screenshot of runtime details on the wizard page for configuring an evaluation." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-authoring-bulktest.png":::

## Update a runtime on the UI

### Update an automatic runtime (preview) on a flow page

On a flow page, you can use the following options to manage an automatic runtime (preview):

- **Install packages** triggers `pip install -r requirements.txt` in the flow folder. This process can take a few minutes, depending on the packages that you install.
- **Reset** deletes the current runtime and creates a new one with the same environment. If you encounter a package conflict issue, you can try this option.
- **Edit** opens the runtime configuration page, where you can define the VM side and the idle time for the runtime.
- **Stop** deletes the current runtime. If there's no active runtime on the underlying compute, the compute resource is also deleted.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-actions.png" alt-text="Screenshot of actions for an automatic runtime on a flow page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-actions.png":::

You can also customize the environment that you use to run this flow by adding packages in the `requirements.txt` file in the flow folder. After you add more packages in this file, you can choose either of these options:

- **Save and install** triggers `pip install -r requirements.txt` in the flow folder. The process can take a few minutes, depending on the packages that you install.
- **Save only** just saves the `requirements.txt` file. You can install the packages later yourself.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-save-install.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the option to save and install packages for an automatic runtime on a flow page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-create-automatic-save-install.png":::

> [!NOTE]
> You can change the location and even the file name of `requirements.txt`, but be sure to also change it in the `flow.dag.yaml` file in the flow folder.
>
> Don't pin the version of `promptflow` and `promptflow-tools` in `requirements.txt`, because we already include them in the runtime base image.

#### Add packages in a private feed in Azure DevOps

If you want to use a private feed in Azure DevOps, follow these steps:

1. Create a user-assigned managed identity and add this identity in the Azure DevOps organization. To learn more, see [Use service principals and managed identities](/azure/devops/integrate/get-started/authentication/service-principal-managed-identity).

   > [!NOTE]
   > If the **Add Users** button isn't visible, you probably don't have the necessary permissions to perform this action.

1. [Add or update user-assigned identities to a workspace](../how-to-identity-based-service-authentication.md#to-create-a-workspace-with-multiple-user-assigned-identities-use-one-of-the-following-methods).

1. Add `{private}` to your private feed URL. For example, if you want to install `test_package` from `test_feed` in Azure DevOps, add `-i https://{private}@{test_feed_url_in_azure_devops}` in `requirements.txt`:

   ```txt
   -i https://{private}@{test_feed_url_in_azure_devops}
   test_package
   ```

1. Specify the user-assigned managed identity in **Start with advanced settings** if automatic runtime isn't running, or use the **Edit** button if automatic runtime is running.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-advanced-setting-msi.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the toggle for using a workspace user-assigned managed identity. " lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-advanced-setting-msi.png":::

#### Change the base image for automatic runtime (preview)

By default, we use the latest prompt flow image as the base image. If you want to use a different base image, you can [build a custom one](how-to-customize-environment-runtime.md#customize-environment-with-docker-context-for-runtime). Then, put the new base image under `environment` in the `flow.dag.yaml` file in the flow folder. To use the new base image, you need to reset the runtime via the `reset` command. This process takes several minutes as it pulls the new base image and reinstalls packages.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-automatic-image-flow-dag.png" alt-text="Screenshot of actions for customizing an environment for an automatic runtime on a flow page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-creation-automatic-image-flow-dag.png":::

```yaml
environment:
    image: <your-custom-image>
    python_requirements_txt: requirements.txt
```

### Update a compute instance runtime on a runtime page

We regularly update our base image (`mcr.microsoft.com/azureml/promptflow/promptflow-runtime-stable`) to include the latest features and bug fixes. We recommend that you update your runtime to the [latest version](https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/azureml/promptflow/promptflow-runtime-stable/tags/list) if possible.

Every time you open the page for runtime details, we check whether there are new versions of the runtime. If new versions are available, a notification appears at the top of the page. You can also manually check the latest version by selecting the **Check version** button.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-update-env-notification.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the page for runtime details, with the button for checking the runtime version." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-update-env-notification.png":::

To get the best experience and performance, try to keep your runtime up to date. On the page for runtime details, select the **Update** button. On the **Edit compute instance runtime** pane, you can update the environment for your runtime. If you select **Use default environment**, the system tries to update your runtime to the latest version.

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-update-env.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the pane for editing a compute instance runtime and the option for using the default environment." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/runtime-update-env.png":::

If you select **Use customized environment**, you first need to rebuild the environment by using the latest prompt flow image. Then update your runtime with the new custom environment.

## Switch compute instance runtime to automatic runtime (preview)

Automatic runtime (preview) have following advantages over compute instance runtime:
- Automatic manage lifecycle of runtime and underlying compute. You don't need to manually create and managed them any more.
- Easily customize packages by adding packages in the `requirements.txt` file in the flow folder, instead of creating a custom environment.

We would recommend you to switch to automatic runtime (preview) if you are using compute instance runtime. If you have a compute instance runtime, you can switch it to an automatic runtime (preview) by using the following steps:

- Prepare your `requirements.txt` file in the flow folder. Please make sure that you don't pin the version of `promptflow` and `promptflow-tools` in `requirements.txt`, because we already include them in the runtime base image.
- If you create custom environment to create compute instance runtime, you can also use get the image from environment detail page, and specify it in `flow.dag.yaml` file in the flow folder.  To learn more, see [Change the base image for automatic runtime (preview)](#change-the-base-image-for-automatic-runtime-preview).

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/image-path-environment-detail.png" alt-text="Screenshot of finding image in environment detail page." lightbox = "./media/how-to-create-manage-runtime/image-path-environment-detail.png":::

- If you want keep the automatic runtime (preview) as long running compute like compute instance, you can disable the idle shutdown toggle under automatic runtime (preview) edit option.

## Next steps

- [Develop a standard flow](how-to-develop-a-standard-flow.md)
- [Develop a chat flow](how-to-develop-a-chat-flow.md)
