---
title: Export your model to mobile - Custom Vision Service
titleSuffix: Foundry Tools
description: Learn how to export your model for use in creating mobile applications or to run locally for real-time classification.
author: PatrickFarley
manager: nitinme

ms.service: azure-ai-custom-vision
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 11/05/2024
ms.author: pafarley
---

# Export your model for use with mobile devices

Azure AI Custom Vision Service lets you export your classifiers to run offline. You can embed your exported classifier into an application and run it locally on a device for real-time classification.

## Export options

Custom Vision Service supports the following exports:

* **TensorFlow** for **Android**
* **TensorFlow.js** for JavaScript frameworks like React, Angular, and Vue. This runs on both **Android** and **iOS** devices
* **CoreML** for **iOS 11 and later**
* **ONNX** for **Windows ML**, **Android**, and **iOS**
* **[Vision AI Developer Kit](https://azure.github.io/Vision-AI-DevKit-Pages/)**
* A **Docker container** for Windows, Linux, or ARM architecture. The container includes a TensorFlow model and service code to use the Custom Vision API

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Custom Vision Service only exports projects with *compact* domains. The models generated by compact domains are optimized for the constraints of real-time classification on mobile devices. Classifiers built with a compact domain might be slightly less accurate than a standard domain with the same amount of training data.
>
> For information on improving your classifiers, see [Improving your classifier](getting-started-improving-your-classifier.md).

## Convert to a compact domain

> [!NOTE]
> The steps in this section only apply if you have an existing model that isn't set to compact domain.

To convert the domain of an existing model, follow these steps:

1. Go to the [Custom Vision website](https://customvision.ai), then sign in to view a list of your projects.

    :::image type="content" source="media/export-your-model/projects-list.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows a list of projects.":::

1. Select a project, and then select the **Gear** icon in the upper right of the page.

    :::image type="content" source="media/export-your-model/gear-icon.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the gear icon.":::

1. In the **Domains** section, select one of the **compact** domains. Select **Save Changes** to save the changes.

    > [!NOTE]
    > For Vision AI Dev Kit, the project must be created with the **General (Compact)** domain, and you must specify the **Vision AI Dev Kit** option under the **Export Capabilities** section.

    :::image type="content" source="media/export-your-model/domains.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the Domains selection.":::

1. From the top of the page, select **Train** to retrain using the new domain.

## Export your model

To export the model after retraining, use the following steps:

1. Go to the **Performance** tab and select **Export**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/export-your-model/export.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the export icon.":::

    > [!TIP]
    > If the **Export** entry isn't available, then the selected iteration doesn't use a compact domain. Use the **Iterations** section of this page to select an iteration that uses a compact domain, and then select **Export**.

1. Select your desired export format, and then select **Export** to download the model.

## Related content

To integrate your exported model into an application, explore one of the following articles or samples:

* [Run a TensorFlow model in Python](export-model-python.md)
* [Use your ONNX model with Windows Machine Learning](custom-vision-onnx-windows-ml.md)
* See the Swift sample for [CoreML model in an iOS application](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=857726)
* See the Android sample for [TensorFlow model in an Android app](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/cognitive-services-android-customvision-sample)
