---
title: Include file
description: Include file
author: msakande
ms.reviewer: seramasu
ms.author: mopeakande
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 03/20/2026
ms.custom: include
---

## Spillover cost

Because spillover uses a combination of provisioned and standard deployments to manage traffic fluctuations, billing for spillover involves two components:

- For any requests processed by your provisioned deployment, only the hourly provisioned deployment cost applies. No additional costs are incurred for these requests.

- For any requests routed to your standard deployment, the request is billed at the associated input token, cached token, and output token rates for the specified model version and deployment type.

## Monitor metrics in the Azure portal

The following Azure Monitor metrics chart provides an example of the split of requests between the primary provisioned deployment and the spillover standard deployment when spillover is initiated. To create a chart, navigate to your resource in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com). 

1. Select **Monitoring** > **Metrics** from the left navigation menu.

1. Add the `Azure OpenAI Requests` metric.
    
    :::image type="content" source="../media/provisioned/spillover-metrics-menu.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing the metrics for a basic spillover example in the Azure portal." lightbox="../media/provisioned/spillover-metrics-menu.png":::
    
1. Select **Apply splitting** and apply the `ModelDeploymentName` split and `StatusCode` splits to the `Azure OpenAI Requests` metric. This shows a chart with the `200` (success) and `429` (too many requests) response codes generated for your resource.   

    :::image type="content" source="../media/provisioned/add-splitting.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing the menu for adding splits in the Azure portal." lightbox="../media/provisioned/add-splitting.png":::
    
    Be sure to add the model deployments you want to view when applying the `ModelDeploymentName` split.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/provisioned/model-filter.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing the available model filters." lightbox="../media/provisioned/model-filter.png":::

    The following example shows an instance where a spike in requests sent to the provisioned throughput deployment generates `429` error codes. Shortly after, spillover occurs and requests begin going to the pay-as-you-go deployment used for spillover, generating `200` responses for that deployment.
    

    :::image type="content" source="../media/provisioned/spillover-chart-simplified.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing the metrics for visualizing spillover." lightbox="../media/provisioned/spillover-chart-simplified.png":::

    > [!NOTE]
    > As requests go to the pay-as-you-go deployment, they still generate 429 response codes on the provisioned deployment before being redirected.
    > :::image type="content" source="../media/provisioned/spillover-chart-errors.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing the response codes from a provisioned deployment." lightbox="../media/provisioned/spillover-chart-errors.png":::

### View spillover metrics

Applying the `IsSpillover` split lets you view the requests to your deployment that are being redirected to your spillover deployment. Following from the previous example, you can see how the `429` responses from the primary deployment match the `200` response codes generated by the spillover deployment.

:::image type="content" source="../media/provisioned/spillover-chart.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing the spillover split in Azure portal." lightbox="../media/provisioned/spillover-chart.png":::

## See also

* [What is provisioned throughput?](../concepts/provisioned-throughput.md)
* [Onboarding to provisioned throughput](../how-to/provisioned-throughput-onboarding.md)
