articles/machine-learning/preview/model-management-custom-container.md, before:

---
title: Customize the Container Image Used for Deploying Azure ML Models | Microsoft Docs
description: This article describes how to customize a container image for Azure Machine Learning models
services: machine-learning
author: tedway
ms.author: tedway, raymondl
manager: mwinkle
ms.reviewer: garyericson, jasonwhowell, mldocs
ms.service: machine-learning
ms.workload: data-services
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 3/19/2018
---

# Customize the Container Image Used for Deploying Azure ML Models

Azure ML Workbench uses containers for deploying machine learning models. The models are deployed along with their dependencies, and Azure ML builds an image from the model, the dependencies, and associated files.

## How to customize the Docker image
Customize the Docker image that Azure ML deploys using:

1. A depenencies.yml file: to manage dependencies that are installable from [PyPi]( https://pypi.python.org/pypi), you can use the conda_dependencies.yml file from the Workbench project, or create your own. This is the recommend approach for installing Python dependencies that are pip-installable.

> Example CLI command:

    az ml image create -n <my Image Name> --manifest-id <my Manifest ID> -c amlconfig\conda_dependencies.yml 

> Example conda_dependencies file: 

    name: project_environment
    dependencies:
      - python=3.5.2
      - scikit-learn
      - ipykernel=4.6.1
    
      - pip:
        - azure-ml-api-sdk==0.1.0a11
        - matplotlib
        
2. A Docker steps file: using this option, you customize the deployed image by installing dependencies that cannot be installed from PyPi. 

The file should include Docker installation steps like a DockerFile. The following commands are allowed in the file: 

	RUN, ENV, ARG, LABEL, EXPOSE

> Example CLI command:

    az ml image create -n <my Image Name> --manifest-id <my Manifest ID> --docker-file <myDockerStepsFileName> 

Image, Manifest, and Service commands accept the docker-file flag.

> Example Docker steps file:

    # Install tools required to build the project
    RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y git libxml2-dev
    # Install library dependencies
    RUN dep ensure -vendor-only

Note: the base image for Azure ML containers is Ubuntu and can't be changed. If you specify a different base image, it will be ignored.

Commit message:

Addressed blocking issues
Added [!NOTE] tag
Updated numbering
Added "Next Steps" as H2

articles/machine-learning/preview/model-management-custom-container.md, after:

---
title: Customize the Container Image Used for Deploying Azure ML Models | Microsoft Docs
description: This article describes how to customize a container image for Azure Machine Learning models
services: machine-learning
author: raymondlaghaeian, tedway
ms.author: tedway, raymondl
manager: mwinkle
ms.reviewer: garyericson, jasonwhowell, mldocs
ms.service: machine-learning
ms.workload: data-services
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 3/21/2018
---

# Customize the container image used for Azure ML Models

This article describes how to customize a container image for Azure Machine Learning models.  Azure ML Workbench uses containers for deploying machine learning models. The models are deployed along with their dependencies, and Azure ML builds an image from the model, the dependencies, and associated files.

## How to customize the Docker image
Customize the Docker image that Azure ML deploys using:

1. A depenencies.yml file: to manage dependencies that are installable from [PyPi]( https://pypi.python.org/pypi), you can use the conda_dependencies.yml file from the Workbench project, or create your own. This is the recommend approach for installing Python dependencies that are pip-installable.

> Example CLI command:

    az ml image create -n <my Image Name> --manifest-id <my Manifest ID> -c amlconfig\conda_dependencies.yml 

> Example conda_dependencies file: 

    name: project_environment
    dependencies:
      - python=3.5.2
      - scikit-learn
      - ipykernel=4.6.1
    
      - pip:
        - azure-ml-api-sdk==0.1.0a11
        - matplotlib
        
1. A Docker steps file: using this option, you customize the deployed image by installing dependencies that cannot be installed from PyPi. 

The file should include Docker installation steps like a DockerFile. The following commands are allowed in the file: 

	RUN, ENV, ARG, LABEL, EXPOSE

> Example CLI command:

    az ml image create -n <my Image Name> --manifest-id <my Manifest ID> --docker-file <myDockerStepsFileName> 

Image, Manifest, and Service commands accept the docker-file flag.

> Example Docker steps file:

    # Install tools required to build the project
    RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y git libxml2-dev
    # Install library dependencies
    RUN dep ensure -vendor-only

[!NOTE] The base image for Azure ML containers is Ubuntu and can't be changed. If you specify a different base image, it will be ignored.

## Next Steps
Now that you've customized your container image, you can deploy it to a cluster for large-scale use.  For details on setting up a cluster for web service deployment, see [Model Management Configuration](deployment-setup-configuration.md).
