---
title: Migrate code from version 2024-11-15 to version 2025-10-15 - Speech service
titleSuffix: Azure AI services
description: This document helps developers migrate code from version 2024-11-15 to version 2025-10-15 of the Speech to text REST API.
author: PatrickFarley
ms.author: pafarley
manager: nitinme
ms.service: azure-ai-speech
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 10/17/2025
#Customer intent: As a developer, I want to migrate code from version 2024-11-15 to version 2025-10-15 of the Speech to text REST API.
---

# Migrate code from version 2024-11-15 to version 2025-10-15

The Speech to text REST API is used for [fast transcription](./fast-transcription-create.md), [batch transcription](batch-transcription.md), and [custom speech](custom-speech-overview.md). This article describes changes from version 3.2 to version 2024-11-15.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Speech to text REST API version `2025-10-15` is the latest version that's generally available. 
> - [Speech to text REST API](rest-speech-to-text.md) version `2024-05-15-preview` will be retired on a date to be announced. 
> - Speech to text REST API `v3.0`, `v3.1`, `v3.2`, `3.2-preview.1`, and `3.2-preview.2` will be retired on March 31st, 2026. 
> 
> For more information about upgrading, see the Speech to text REST API [v3.0 to v3.1](migrate-v3-0-to-v3-1.md), [v3.1 to v3.2](migrate-v3-1-to-v3-2.md), [v3.2 to 2024-11-15](migrate-2024-11-15.md) and [2024-11-15 to 2025-10-15](migrate-2025-10-15.md) migration guides.

## Base path

Custom Speech API continues to use the query parameter–based versioning scheme introduced in the `2024-11-15` release. There is no change to the base path in this version.
Keep using `/speechtotext` as the base path and update the API version in all requests from `?api-version=2024-11-15` to `?api-version=2025-10-15`.

## Datasets

The `project` property, which was removed in the `2024-11-15` version, is added back to dataset creation and update requests.

## Models

The `project` property, which was removed in the `2024-11-15` version, is added back to model creation and update requests.
 
## Evaluations

The `project` property, which was removed in the `2024-11-15` version, is added back to evaluation creation and update requests.

## Endpoints

The `project` property, which was removed in the `2024-11-15` version, is added back to endpoint creation and update requests.

## Transcriptions

The `project` property, which was removed in the `2024-11-15` version, is added back to transcription creation and update requests.
 
## Projects

The `project` API is added back.

The `foundryProjectName` property is introduced in project creation, update, and list operations:

- Creation: Include `foundryProjectName` to set the AI Foundry project name when creating a new project.

- Update: The `foundryProjectName` can be updated to change the associated AI Foundry project name.

- List: The `foundryProjectName` property can be used as a filter when listing projects.

## Next steps

* [Speech to text REST API](rest-speech-to-text.md)
* [Speech to text REST API 2025-10-15 reference documentation](/rest/api/speechtotext/operation-groups?view=rest-speechtotext-2025-10-15&preserve-view=true)
