articles/machine-learning/data-science-virtual-machine/geo-ai-dsvm-overview.md, before:

---
title: Introduction to the Geo AI Data Science VM - Azure | Microsoft Docs
description: Describe Geo AI Data Science VM and the components.
keywords: deep learning, AI, data science tools, data science virtual machine, Geospatial analytics
services: machine-learning
documentationcenter: ''
author: gopitk
manager: cgronlun
editor: bradsev

ms.assetid: 
ms.service: machine-learning
ms.workload: data-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 02/28/2018
ms.author: gokuma

---

# Introduction to the Geo AI Data Science VM

## Why Geo AI Data Science VM? 

Integrating geography and location information to your data brings a powerful new dimension to understanding your world. This has wide range of applications in virtually every segment whether it is commercial, Government, academic or non profit organizations. This domain referred to as Geospatial analytics provides robust tools for gathering, managing and analyzing geographic data including powerful visualization to gain deeper insights into your data. The [Data Science Virtual Machine (DSVM)](overview.md) from Microsoft is a popular experimentation and modeling environment on Azure, that provides a host of AI, Machine Learning and data science tools - all pre-configured to help you be productive instantly. By combining the predictive capability of the DSVM, the scale of Azure Cloud and the market leading Geospatial analytics software from [ESRI](http://www.esri.com), data scientists and geo-spatial analysts now have a productive platform to obtain derive new intelligence from their data and identify new opportunities. 

## What is Geo AI Data Science VM? 
The Geo AI Data Science VM (Geo-DSVM) is a product offering arising out of the collaboration between ESRI and Microsoft. It is an extension of  [Microsoft's Data Science Virtual Machine](overview.md) (DSVM) to augment it with ESRI's market leading [ArcGIS Pro](https://www.esri.com/arcgis/products/arcgis-pro/overview) geospatial analytics software. The result is a powerful environment that provides  the most popular AI and data science tools for exploring data, training predictive analytics models using machine learning and deep learning algorithms as well as mapping, geospatial analytics, and rich visualization. It is supported on the Windows 2016 Data Science Virtual Machine.  Python and R interfaces to ArcGIS are also pre-configured on the Geo-DSVM enabling programmatic access to geospatial analytics within your AI applications. We also provide samples in the form of Jupyter notebooks to get started with building AI applications infused with geospatial intelligence.

## Next Steps

Get started with the Geo AI Data Science VM with the following steps:

* [Provision a Geo AI Data Science VM](provision-geo-dsvm.md)
* [Use the Geo AI Data Science VM](use-geo-dsvm.md)
* [Samples](dsvm-samples-and-walkthroughs.md)

Commit message:

first round of edits to topics

articles/machine-learning/data-science-virtual-machine/geo-ai-dsvm-overview.md, after:

---
title: Introduction to the Geo AI Data Science VM - Azure | Microsoft Docs
description: Describe Geo AI Data Science VM and the components.
keywords: deep learning, AI, data science tools, data science virtual machine, Geospatial analytics
services: machine-learning
documentationcenter: ''
author: gopitk
manager: cgronlun
editor: bradsev

ms.assetid: 
ms.service: machine-learning
ms.workload: data-services
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/01/2018
ms.author: gokuma

---

# Introduction to the Geo AI Data Science VM

The Azure **Geo AI Data Science VM** (Geo-DSVM) delivers geospatial analytics capabilities from Microsoft's Data Science VM. Specifically, this VM extends the AI and data science toolkits in the [Data Science VM](overview.md) by adding ESRI's market-leading [ArcGIS Pro](https://www.esri.com/arcgis/products/arcgis-pro/overview) Geographic Information System.

The Geo AI Data Science VM is a product offering arising out of the collaboration between ESRI and Microsoft. The result is a powerful environment that provides the ability to:

- explore data with the most popular AI and data science tools
- apply statistical analysis to data which has a geographical or spatial aspect
- train models for predictive analytics using machine learning and deep learning algorithms
- create rich visualization

It is supported on the Windows 2016 Data Science Virtual Machine. Python and R interfaces to ArcGIS are also pre-configured on the Geo-DSVM enabling programmatic access to geospatial analytics within your AI applications. We also provide samples in the form of Jupyter notebooks to get started with building AI applications infused with geospatial intelligence.


## Why Geo AI Data Science VM? 

Integrating geography and location information with your data brings a powerful new dimension to understanding a world increasingly instrumented with IOT devices. This has a wide range of applications in virtually every segment  of civil society, whether commercial, governmental, academic, or not-for-profit activities. Geospatial analytics provides robust tools for gathering, managing and analyzing geographic and location-based data and powerful visualization that can enable unique insights into the significance of such data. 

The [Data Science Virtual Machine (DSVM)](overview.md) from Microsoft is a popular experimentation and modeling environment on Azure, that provides a host of AI, Machine Learning, and data science tools. These are all conveniently pre-configured to help you be immediately productive. 

By combining the predictive capabilities of the Data Science VM with the scalability of the Azure Cloud and the Geospatial analytics software from [ESRI](http://www.esri.com), data scientists and geo-spatial analysts now have a productive platform to obtain derive new intelligence from their data and identify new opportunities. 


## Next Steps

Provision a Geo AI Data Science VM and get started using it with guidance from the following topics:

* [Provision a Geo AI Data Science VM](provision-geo-ai-dsvm.md)
* [Use the Geo AI Data Science VM](use-geo-ai-dsvm.md)
* [Samples](dsvm-samples-and-walkthroughs.md)
