articles/ai-foundry/concepts/evaluation-evaluators/textual-similarity-evaluators.md, before:

---
title: Textual Similarity Evaluators for Generative AI
titleSuffix: Microsoft Foundry
description: Learn about textual similarity evaluators for generative AI, including semantic similarity, F1 score, BLEU, GLEU, ROUGE, and METEOR metrics.
monikerRange: 'foundry-classic || foundry'
ai-usage: ai-assisted
author: lgayhardt
ms.author: lagayhar
ms.reviewer: changliu2
ms.date: 11/18/2025
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.topic: reference
ms.custom:
  - build-aifnd
  - build-2025
---

# Textual similarity evaluators

[!INCLUDE [version-banner](../../includes/version-banner.md)]

[!INCLUDE [evaluation-preview](../../includes/evaluation-preview.md)]

It's important to compare how closely the textual response generated by your AI system matches the response you would expect. The expected response is called the *ground truth*.

Use a LLM-judge metric like [Similarity](#similarity) with a focus on the semantic similarity between the generated response and the ground truth. Or, use metrics from the field of natural language processing (NLP), including [F1 score](#f1-score), [BLEU](#bleu-score), [GLEU](#gleu-score), [ROUGE](#rouge-score), and [METEOR](#meteor-score) with a focus on the overlaps of tokens or n-grams between the two.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

## Model configuration for AI-assisted evaluators

For reference in the following code snippets, the AI-assisted evaluators use a model configuration for the LLM-judge:

```python
import os
from azure.ai.evaluation import AzureOpenAIModelConfiguration
from dotenv import load_dotenv
load_dotenv()

model_config = AzureOpenAIModelConfiguration(
    azure_endpoint=os.environ["AZURE_ENDPOINT"],
    api_key=os.environ.get("AZURE_API_KEY"),
    azure_deployment=os.environ.get("AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_NAME"),
    api_version=os.environ.get("AZURE_API_VERSION"),
)
```

### Evaluator model support

We support AzureOpenAI or OpenAI [reasoning models](../../openai/how-to/reasoning.md) and non-reasoning models for the LLM-judge depending on the evaluators:

| Evaluators | Reasoning Models as Judge (example: o-series models from Azure OpenAI / OpenAI) | Non-reasoning models as Judge (example: gpt-4.1, gpt-4o, etc.) | To enable |
|--|--|--|--|
| `IntentResolution`, `TaskAdherence`, `ToolCallAccuracy`, `ResponseCompleteness`, `Coherence`, `Fluency`, `Similarity`, `Groundedness`, `Retrieval`, `Relevance`  | Supported | Supported | Set additional parameter `is_reasoning_model=True` in initializing evaluators |
| Other evaluators| Not Supported | Supported | -- |

For complex evaluation that requires refined reasoning, we recommend a strong reasoning model like `4.1-mini` with a balance of reasoning performance and cost efficiency.

::: moniker-end

## Similarity

Similarity measures the degrees of semantic similarity between the generated text and its ground truth with respect to a query. Compared to other text-similarity metrics that require ground truths, this metric focuses on semantics of a response, instead of simple overlap in tokens or n-grams. It also considers the broader context of a query.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### Similarity example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import SimilarityEvaluator

similarity = SimilarityEvaluator(model_config=model_config, threshold=3)
similarity(
    query="Is Marie Curie born in Paris?", 
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### Similarity output

The output is a numerical score on a likert scale, integer 1 to 5. A higher score means a higher degree of similarity. Given a numerical threshold (default to 3), this example also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise. Use the reason field to understand why the score is high or low.

```python
{
    "similarity": 4.0,
    "gpt_similarity": 4.0,
    "similarity_result": "pass",
    "similarity_threshold": 3
}
```

::: moniker-end

## F1 score

F1 score measures the similarity by shared tokens between the generated text and the ground truth. It focuses on both precision and recall. The F1-score computes the ratio of the number of shared words between the model generation and the ground truth. The ratio is computed over the individual words in the generated response against those words in the ground truth answer. The number of shared words between the generation and the truth is the basis of the F1 score.

- *Precision* is the ratio of the number of shared words to the total number of words in the generation. 
- *Recall* is the ratio of the number of shared words to the total number of words in the ground truth.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### F1 score example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import F1ScoreEvaluator

f1_score = F1ScoreEvaluator(threshold=0.5)
f1_score(
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### F1 score output

The numerical score is a 0-1 float. A higher score is better. Given a numerical threshold (default to 0.5), it also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise.

```python
{
    "f1_score": 0.631578947368421,
    "f1_result": "pass",
    "f1_threshold": 0.5
}
```

::: moniker-end

## BLEU score

Bleu score computes the Bilingual Evaluation Understudy (BLEU) score commonly used in natural language processing and machine translation. It measures how closely the generated text matches the reference text.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### BLEU example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import BleuScoreEvaluator

bleu_score = BleuScoreEvaluator(threshold=0.3)
bleu_score(
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### BLEU output

The numerical score is a 0-1 float. A higher score is better. Given a numerical threshold (default to 0.5), it also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise.

```python
{
    "bleu_score": 0.1550967560878879,
    "bleu_result": "fail",
    "bleu_threshold": 0.3
}
```

::: moniker-end

## GLEU score

Gleu score computes the Google-BLEU (GLEU) score. It measures the similarity by shared n-grams between the generated text and ground truth. Similar to the BLEU score, it focuses on both precision and recall. It addresses the drawbacks of the BLEU score using a per-sentence reward objective.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### GLEU score example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import GleuScoreEvaluator

gleu_score = GleuScoreEvaluator(threshold=0.2)
gleu_score(
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### GLEU score output

The numerical score is a 0-1 float. A higher score is better. Given a numerical threshold (default to 0.5), it also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise.

```python
{
    "gleu_score": 0.25925925925925924,
    "gleu_result": "pass",
    "gleu_threshold": 0.2
}
```

::: moniker-end

## ROUGE score

Rouge score computes the Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation (ROUGE) scores, a set of metrics used to evaluate automatic summarization and machine translation. It measures the overlap between generated text and reference summaries. ROUGE focuses on recall-oriented measures to assess how well the generated text covers the reference text. The ROUGE score is composed of precision, recall, and F1 score.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### ROUGE score example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import RougeScoreEvaluator, RougeType

rouge = RougeScoreEvaluator(rouge_type=RougeType.ROUGE_L, precision_threshold=0.6, recall_threshold=0.5, f1_score_threshold=0.55) 
rouge(
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### ROUGE score output

The numerical score is a 0-1 float. A higher score is better. Given a numerical threshold (default to 0.5), it also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise.

```python
{
    "rouge_precision": 0.46153846153846156,
    "rouge_recall": 1.0,
    "rouge_f1_score": 0.631578947368421,
    "rouge_precision_result": "fail",
    "rouge_recall_result": "pass",
    "rouge_f1_score_result": "pass",
    "rouge_precision_threshold": 0.6,
    "rouge_recall_threshold": 0.5,
    "rouge_f1_score_threshold": 0.55
}
```

::: moniker-end

## METEOR score

Meteor score measures the similarity by shared n-grams between the generated text and the ground truth. Similar to the BLEU score, it focuses on precision and recall. It addresses limitations of other metrics like the BLEU score by considering synonyms, stemming, and paraphrasing for content alignment.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### METEOR score example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import MeteorScoreEvaluator

meteor_score = MeteorScoreEvaluator(threshold=0.9)
meteor_score(
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### METEOR score output

The numerical score is a 0-1 float. A higher score is better. Given a numerical threshold (default to 0.5), it also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise.

```python
{
    "meteor_score": 0.8621140763997908,
    "meteor_result": "fail",
    "meteor_threshold": 0.9
}
```

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="foundry"

## Using textual similarity evaluators

Textual similarity evaluators compare generated responses against ground truth text using different algorithms:

- Similarity - LLM-based semantic similarity evaluation
- F1, BLEU, GLEU, ROUGE, METEOR - Algorithmic token/n-gram overlap metrics

Examples:

- [Similarity sample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/ai/azure-ai-projects/samples/evaluations/sample_evaluations_ai_assisted.py)

| Evaluator | What it measures | Required inputs | Required parameters | Output | Default threshold |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| `builtin.similarity` | Semantic similarity to ground truth | `query`, `response`, `ground_truth` | `deployment_name` | 1-5 integer | 3 |
| `builtin.f1_score` | Token overlap using precision and recall | `response`, `ground_truth` | *(none)* | 0-1 float | 0.5 |
| `builtin.bleu_score` | N-gram overlap (machine translation metric) | `response`, `ground_truth` | *(none)* | 0-1 float | 0.5 |
| `builtin.gleu_score` | Per-sentence reward variant of BLEU | `response`, `ground_truth` | *(none)* | 0-1 float | 0.5 |
| `builtin.rouge_score` | Recall-oriented n-gram overlap | `response`, `ground_truth` | `rouge_type` | 0-1 float | 0.5 |
| `builtin.meteor_score` | Weighted alignment with synonyms | `response`, `ground_truth` | *(none)* | 0-1 float | 0.5 |

**Data mapping syntax:**

- `{{item.field_name}}` references fields from your test dataset (for example, `{{item.response}}`).

See [Run evaluations in the cloud](../../how-to/develop/cloud-evaluation.md) for details on running evaluations and configuring data sources.

### Configuration example

```python
testing_criteria = [
    {
        "type": "azure_ai_evaluator",
        "name": "Similarity",
        "evaluator_name": "builtin.similarity",
        "initialization_parameters": {"deployment_name": model_deployment},
        "data_mapping": {
            "query": "{{item.query}}",
            "response": "{{item.response}}",
            "ground_truth": "{{item.ground_truth}}",
        },
    },
    {
        "type": "azure_ai_evaluator",
        "name": "BLEUScore",
        "evaluator_name": "builtin.bleu_score",
        "data_mapping": {
            "response": "{{item.response}}",
            "ground_truth": "{{item.ground_truth}}",
        },
    },
    {
        "type": "azure_ai_evaluator",
        "name": "ROUGEScore",
        "evaluator_name": "builtin.rouge_score",
        "initialization_parameters": {"rouge_type": "rouge1"},
        "data_mapping": {
            "response": "{{item.response}}",
            "ground_truth": "{{item.ground_truth}}",
        },
    },
]
```

### Output

LLM-based evaluators like `similarity` use a 1-5 Likert scale. Algorithmic evaluators output 0-1 floats. All evaluators output *pass* or *fail* based on their thresholds. The following snippet shows representative fields from the full output object:

```json
{
    "type": "azure_ai_evaluator",
    "name": "similarity",
    "score": 4,
    "passed": true,
    "reason": "The response accurately conveys the same meaning as the ground truth."
}
```

::: moniker-end

## Related content

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

- [How to run batch evaluation on a dataset](../../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md#local-evaluation-on-test-datasets-using-evaluate)
- [How to run batch evaluation on a target](../../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md#local-evaluation-on-a-target)

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="foundry"

- [Complete working sample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/ai/azure-ai-projects/samples/evaluations/sample_evaluations_ai_assisted.py)
- [How to run agent evaluation](../../how-to/develop/agent-evaluate-sdk.md)
- [How to run cloud evaluation](../../how-to/develop/cloud-evaluation.md)

::: moniker-end

Commit message:

Add example input/output sections and agent message schema to evaluator docs

articles/ai-foundry/concepts/evaluation-evaluators/textual-similarity-evaluators.md, after:

---
title: Textual Similarity Evaluators for Generative AI
titleSuffix: Microsoft Foundry
description: Learn about textual similarity evaluators for generative AI, including semantic similarity, F1 score, BLEU, GLEU, ROUGE, and METEOR metrics.
monikerRange: 'foundry-classic || foundry'
ai-usage: ai-assisted
author: lgayhardt
ms.author: lagayhar
ms.reviewer: changliu2
ms.date: 11/18/2025
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.topic: reference
ms.custom:
  - build-aifnd
  - build-2025
---

# Textual similarity evaluators

[!INCLUDE [version-banner](../../includes/version-banner.md)]

[!INCLUDE [evaluation-preview](../../includes/evaluation-preview.md)]

It's important to compare how closely the textual response generated by your AI system matches the response you would expect. The expected response is called the *ground truth*.

Use a LLM-judge metric like [Similarity](#similarity) with a focus on the semantic similarity between the generated response and the ground truth. Or, use metrics from the field of natural language processing (NLP), including [F1 score](#f1-score), [BLEU](#bleu-score), [GLEU](#gleu-score), [ROUGE](#rouge-score), and [METEOR](#meteor-score) with a focus on the overlaps of tokens or n-grams between the two.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

## Model configuration for AI-assisted evaluators

For reference in the following code snippets, the AI-assisted evaluators use a model configuration for the LLM-judge:

```python
import os
from azure.ai.evaluation import AzureOpenAIModelConfiguration
from dotenv import load_dotenv
load_dotenv()

model_config = AzureOpenAIModelConfiguration(
    azure_endpoint=os.environ["AZURE_ENDPOINT"],
    api_key=os.environ.get("AZURE_API_KEY"),
    azure_deployment=os.environ.get("AZURE_DEPLOYMENT_NAME"),
    api_version=os.environ.get("AZURE_API_VERSION"),
)
```

### Evaluator model support

We support AzureOpenAI or OpenAI [reasoning models](../../openai/how-to/reasoning.md) and non-reasoning models for the LLM-judge depending on the evaluators:

| Evaluators | Reasoning Models as Judge (example: o-series models from Azure OpenAI / OpenAI) | Non-reasoning models as Judge (example: gpt-4.1, gpt-4o, etc.) | To enable |
|--|--|--|--|
| `IntentResolution`, `TaskAdherence`, `ToolCallAccuracy`, `ResponseCompleteness`, `Coherence`, `Fluency`, `Similarity`, `Groundedness`, `Retrieval`, `Relevance`  | Supported | Supported | Set additional parameter `is_reasoning_model=True` in initializing evaluators |
| Other evaluators| Not Supported | Supported | -- |

For complex evaluation that requires refined reasoning, we recommend a strong reasoning model like `4.1-mini` with a balance of reasoning performance and cost efficiency.

::: moniker-end

## Similarity

Similarity measures the degrees of semantic similarity between the generated text and its ground truth with respect to a query. Compared to other text-similarity metrics that require ground truths, this metric focuses on semantics of a response, instead of simple overlap in tokens or n-grams. It also considers the broader context of a query.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### Similarity example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import SimilarityEvaluator

similarity = SimilarityEvaluator(model_config=model_config, threshold=3)
similarity(
    query="Is Marie Curie born in Paris?", 
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### Similarity output

The output is a numerical score on a likert scale, integer 1 to 5. A higher score means a higher degree of similarity. Given a numerical threshold (default to 3), this example also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise. Use the reason field to understand why the score is high or low.

```python
{
    "similarity": 4.0,
    "gpt_similarity": 4.0,
    "similarity_result": "pass",
    "similarity_threshold": 3
}
```

::: moniker-end

## F1 score

F1 score measures the similarity by shared tokens between the generated text and the ground truth. It focuses on both precision and recall. The F1-score computes the ratio of the number of shared words between the model generation and the ground truth. The ratio is computed over the individual words in the generated response against those words in the ground truth answer. The number of shared words between the generation and the truth is the basis of the F1 score.

- *Precision* is the ratio of the number of shared words to the total number of words in the generation. 
- *Recall* is the ratio of the number of shared words to the total number of words in the ground truth.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### F1 score example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import F1ScoreEvaluator

f1_score = F1ScoreEvaluator(threshold=0.5)
f1_score(
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### F1 score output

The numerical score is a 0-1 float. A higher score is better. Given a numerical threshold (default to 0.5), it also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise.

```python
{
    "f1_score": 0.631578947368421,
    "f1_result": "pass",
    "f1_threshold": 0.5
}
```

::: moniker-end

## BLEU score

Bleu score computes the Bilingual Evaluation Understudy (BLEU) score commonly used in natural language processing and machine translation. It measures how closely the generated text matches the reference text.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### BLEU example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import BleuScoreEvaluator

bleu_score = BleuScoreEvaluator(threshold=0.3)
bleu_score(
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### BLEU output

The numerical score is a 0-1 float. A higher score is better. Given a numerical threshold (default to 0.5), it also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise.

```python
{
    "bleu_score": 0.1550967560878879,
    "bleu_result": "fail",
    "bleu_threshold": 0.3
}
```

::: moniker-end

## GLEU score

Gleu score computes the Google-BLEU (GLEU) score. It measures the similarity by shared n-grams between the generated text and ground truth. Similar to the BLEU score, it focuses on both precision and recall. It addresses the drawbacks of the BLEU score using a per-sentence reward objective.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### GLEU score example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import GleuScoreEvaluator

gleu_score = GleuScoreEvaluator(threshold=0.2)
gleu_score(
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### GLEU score output

The numerical score is a 0-1 float. A higher score is better. Given a numerical threshold (default to 0.5), it also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise.

```python
{
    "gleu_score": 0.25925925925925924,
    "gleu_result": "pass",
    "gleu_threshold": 0.2
}
```

::: moniker-end

## ROUGE score

Rouge score computes the Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation (ROUGE) scores, a set of metrics used to evaluate automatic summarization and machine translation. It measures the overlap between generated text and reference summaries. ROUGE focuses on recall-oriented measures to assess how well the generated text covers the reference text. The ROUGE score is composed of precision, recall, and F1 score.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### ROUGE score example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import RougeScoreEvaluator, RougeType

rouge = RougeScoreEvaluator(rouge_type=RougeType.ROUGE_L, precision_threshold=0.6, recall_threshold=0.5, f1_score_threshold=0.55) 
rouge(
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### ROUGE score output

The numerical score is a 0-1 float. A higher score is better. Given a numerical threshold (default to 0.5), it also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise.

```python
{
    "rouge_precision": 0.46153846153846156,
    "rouge_recall": 1.0,
    "rouge_f1_score": 0.631578947368421,
    "rouge_precision_result": "fail",
    "rouge_recall_result": "pass",
    "rouge_f1_score_result": "pass",
    "rouge_precision_threshold": 0.6,
    "rouge_recall_threshold": 0.5,
    "rouge_f1_score_threshold": 0.55
}
```

::: moniker-end

## METEOR score

Meteor score measures the similarity by shared n-grams between the generated text and the ground truth. Similar to the BLEU score, it focuses on precision and recall. It addresses limitations of other metrics like the BLEU score by considering synonyms, stemming, and paraphrasing for content alignment.

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

### METEOR score example

```python
from azure.ai.evaluation import MeteorScoreEvaluator

meteor_score = MeteorScoreEvaluator(threshold=0.9)
meteor_score(
    response="According to wikipedia, Marie Curie was not born in Paris but in Warsaw.",
    ground_truth="Marie Curie was born in Warsaw."
)
```

### METEOR score output

The numerical score is a 0-1 float. A higher score is better. Given a numerical threshold (default to 0.5), it also outputs *pass* if the score >= threshold, or *fail* otherwise.

```python
{
    "meteor_score": 0.8621140763997908,
    "meteor_result": "fail",
    "meteor_threshold": 0.9
}
```

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="foundry"

## Using textual similarity evaluators

Textual similarity evaluators compare generated responses against ground truth text using different algorithms:

- Similarity - LLM-based semantic similarity evaluation
- F1, BLEU, GLEU, ROUGE, METEOR - Algorithmic token/n-gram overlap metrics

Examples:

- [Textual similarity evaluator sample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/ai/azure-ai-projects/samples/evaluations/sample_evaluations_ai_assisted.py)

| Evaluator | What it measures | Required inputs | Required parameters | Output | Default threshold |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| `builtin.similarity` | Semantic similarity to ground truth | `query`, `response`, `ground_truth` | `deployment_name` | 1-5 integer | 3 |
| `builtin.f1_score` | Token overlap using precision and recall | `response`, `ground_truth` | *(none)* | 0-1 float | 0.5 |
| `builtin.bleu_score` | N-gram overlap (machine translation metric) | `response`, `ground_truth` | *(none)* | 0-1 float | 0.5 |
| `builtin.gleu_score` | Per-sentence reward variant of BLEU | `response`, `ground_truth` | *(none)* | 0-1 float | 0.5 |
| `builtin.rouge_score` | Recall-oriented n-gram overlap | `response`, `ground_truth` | `rouge_type` | 0-1 float | 0.5 |
| `builtin.meteor_score` | Weighted alignment with synonyms | `response`, `ground_truth` | *(none)* | 0-1 float | 0.5 |

**Data mapping syntax:**

- `{{item.field_name}}` references fields from your test dataset (for example, `{{item.response}}`).

See [Run evaluations in the cloud](../../how-to/develop/cloud-evaluation.md) for details on running evaluations and configuring data sources.

### Example input

Your test dataset should contain the fields referenced in your data mappings. For textual similarity evaluators, include `query`, `response`, and `ground_truth` fields:

```jsonl
{"query": "What is the capital of France?", "response": "Paris is the capital of France.", "ground_truth": "The capital of France is Paris."}
{"query": "Explain machine learning.", "response": "Machine learning is a subset of AI that enables systems to learn from data.", "ground_truth": "Machine learning is an AI technique where computers learn patterns from data."}
```

### Configuration example

```python
testing_criteria = [
    {
        "type": "azure_ai_evaluator",
        "name": "Similarity",
        "evaluator_name": "builtin.similarity",
        "initialization_parameters": {"deployment_name": model_deployment},
        "data_mapping": {
            "query": "{{item.query}}",
            "response": "{{item.response}}",
            "ground_truth": "{{item.ground_truth}}",
        },
    },
    {
        "type": "azure_ai_evaluator",
        "name": "BLEUScore",
        "evaluator_name": "builtin.bleu_score",
        "data_mapping": {
            "response": "{{item.response}}",
            "ground_truth": "{{item.ground_truth}}",
        },
    },
    {
        "type": "azure_ai_evaluator",
        "name": "ROUGEScore",
        "evaluator_name": "builtin.rouge_score",
        "initialization_parameters": {"rouge_type": "rouge1"},
        "data_mapping": {
            "response": "{{item.response}}",
            "ground_truth": "{{item.ground_truth}}",
        },
    },
]
```

### Example output

LLM-based evaluators like `similarity` use a 1-5 Likert scale. Algorithmic evaluators output 0-1 floats. All evaluators output *pass* or *fail* based on their thresholds. The following snippet shows representative fields from the full output object:

```json
{
    "type": "azure_ai_evaluator",
    "name": "similarity",
    "score": 4,
    "passed": true,
    "reason": "The response accurately conveys the same meaning as the ground truth."
}
```

::: moniker-end

## Related content

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

- [How to run batch evaluation on a dataset](../../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md#local-evaluation-on-test-datasets-using-evaluate)
- [How to run batch evaluation on a target](../../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md#local-evaluation-on-a-target)

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="foundry"

- [Complete working sample](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/ai/azure-ai-projects/samples/evaluations/sample_evaluations_ai_assisted.py)
- [How to run agent evaluation](../../how-to/develop/agent-evaluate-sdk.md)
- [How to run cloud evaluation](../../how-to/develop/cloud-evaluation.md)

::: moniker-end
