articles/ai-services/content-safety/includes/quickstarts/javascript-quickstart-text.md, before:

---
title: "Quickstart: Analyze image content with JavaScript"
description: In this quickstart, get started using the Content Safety JavaScript SDK to analyze image content for objectionable material.
services: cognitive-services
author: PatrickFarley
manager: nitinme
ms.service: azure-ai-content-safety
ms.custom:
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/10/2023
ms.author: pafarley
---

[Reference documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure-rest/ai-content-safety/v/1.0.0-beta.1) | [Library source code](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/main/sdk/contentsafety/ai-content-safety-rest) | [Package (npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure-rest/ai-content-safety) | [Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/main/sdk/contentsafety/ai-content-safety-rest/samples) |


## Prerequisites

* An Azure subscription - [Create one for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/cognitive-services/) 
* The current version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
* Once you have your Azure subscription, <a href="https://aka.ms/acs-create"  title="Create a Content Safety resource"  target="_blank">create a Content Safety resource </a> in the Azure portal to get your key and endpoint. Enter a unique name for your resource, select the subscription you entered on the application form, select a resource group, supported region, and supported pricing tier. Then select **Create**.
  * The resource takes a few minutes to deploy. After it finishes, Select **go to resource**. In the left pane, under **Resource Management**, select **Subscription Key and Endpoint**. The endpoint and either of the keys are used to call APIs.

## Set up application

Create a new Node.js application. In a console window (such as cmd, PowerShell, or Bash), create a new directory for your app, and navigate to it.

```console
mkdir myapp && cd myapp
```

Run the `npm init` command to create a node application with a `package.json` file.

```console
npm init
```

### Install the client SDK 

Install the `@azure-rest/ai-content-safety` npm package:

```console
npm install @azure-rest/ai-content-safety
```

Also install the `dotenv` module to use environment variables:

```console
npm install dotenv
```

Your app's `package.json` file will be updated with the dependencies.

[!INCLUDE [Create environment variables](../env-vars.md)]

## Analyze text content

Create a new file in your directory, *index.js*. Open it in your preferred editor or IDE and paste in the following code. Replace `<your text sample>` with the text content you'd like to use.

```JavaScript
const ContentSafetyClient = require("@azure-rest/ai-content-safety").default,
  { isUnexpected } = require("@azure-rest/ai-content-safety");
const { AzureKeyCredential } = require("@azure/core-auth");

// Load the .env file if it exists
require("dotenv").config();

async function main() {
    // get endpoint and key from environment variables
    const endpoint = process.env["CONTENT_SAFETY_ENDPOINT"];
    const key = process.env["CONTENT_SAFETY_KEY"];
    
    const credential = new AzureKeyCredential(key);
    const client = ContentSafetyClient(endpoint, credential);
    
    // replace with your own sample text string 
    const text = "<your sample text>";
    const analyzeTextOption = { text: text };
    const analyzeTextParameters = { body: analyzeTextOption };
    
    const result = await client.path("/text:analyze").post(analyzeTextParameters);
    
    if (isUnexpected(result)) {
        throw result;
    }
    
    console.log("Hate severity: ", result.body.hateResult?.severity);
    console.log("SelfHarm severity: ", result.body.selfHarmResult?.severity);
    console.log("Sexual severity: ", result.body.sexualResult?.severity);
    console.log("Violence severity: ", result.body.violenceResult?.severity);
}

main().catch((err) => {
    console.error("The sample encountered an error:", err);
});
```

Run the application with the `node` command on your quickstart file.

```console
node index.js
```

## Output

```console
Hate severity:  0
SelfHarm severity:  0
Sexual severity:  0
Violence severity:  0
```

Commit message:

expand note on text size

articles/ai-services/content-safety/includes/quickstarts/javascript-quickstart-text.md, after:

---
title: "Quickstart: Analyze image content with JavaScript"
description: In this quickstart, get started using the Content Safety JavaScript SDK to analyze image content for objectionable material.
services: cognitive-services
author: PatrickFarley
manager: nitinme
ms.service: azure-ai-content-safety
ms.custom:
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 10/10/2023
ms.author: pafarley
---

[Reference documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure-rest/ai-content-safety/v/1.0.0-beta.1) | [Library source code](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/main/sdk/contentsafety/ai-content-safety-rest) | [Package (npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure-rest/ai-content-safety) | [Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/main/sdk/contentsafety/ai-content-safety-rest/samples) |


## Prerequisites

* An Azure subscription - [Create one for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/cognitive-services/) 
* The current version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
* Once you have your Azure subscription, <a href="https://aka.ms/acs-create"  title="Create a Content Safety resource"  target="_blank">create a Content Safety resource </a> in the Azure portal to get your key and endpoint. Enter a unique name for your resource, select the subscription you entered on the application form, select a resource group, supported region, and supported pricing tier. Then select **Create**.
  * The resource takes a few minutes to deploy. After it finishes, Select **go to resource**. In the left pane, under **Resource Management**, select **Subscription Key and Endpoint**. The endpoint and either of the keys are used to call APIs.

## Set up application

Create a new Node.js application. In a console window (such as cmd, PowerShell, or Bash), create a new directory for your app, and navigate to it.

```console
mkdir myapp && cd myapp
```

Run the `npm init` command to create a node application with a `package.json` file.

```console
npm init
```

### Install the client SDK 

Install the `@azure-rest/ai-content-safety` npm package:

```console
npm install @azure-rest/ai-content-safety
```

Also install the `dotenv` module to use environment variables:

```console
npm install dotenv
```

Your app's `package.json` file will be updated with the dependencies.

[!INCLUDE [Create environment variables](../env-vars.md)]

## Analyze text content

Create a new file in your directory, *index.js*. Open it in your preferred editor or IDE and paste in the following code. Replace `<your text sample>` with the text content you'd like to use.

> [!TIP]
> Text size and granularity
>
> The default maximum length for text submissions is **10K** characters.

```JavaScript
const ContentSafetyClient = require("@azure-rest/ai-content-safety").default,
  { isUnexpected } = require("@azure-rest/ai-content-safety");
const { AzureKeyCredential } = require("@azure/core-auth");

// Load the .env file if it exists
require("dotenv").config();

async function main() {
    // get endpoint and key from environment variables
    const endpoint = process.env["CONTENT_SAFETY_ENDPOINT"];
    const key = process.env["CONTENT_SAFETY_KEY"];
    
    const credential = new AzureKeyCredential(key);
    const client = ContentSafetyClient(endpoint, credential);
    
    // replace with your own sample text string 
    const text = "<your sample text>";
    const analyzeTextOption = { text: text };
    const analyzeTextParameters = { body: analyzeTextOption };
    
    const result = await client.path("/text:analyze").post(analyzeTextParameters);
    
    if (isUnexpected(result)) {
        throw result;
    }
    
    console.log("Hate severity: ", result.body.hateResult?.severity);
    console.log("SelfHarm severity: ", result.body.selfHarmResult?.severity);
    console.log("Sexual severity: ", result.body.sexualResult?.severity);
    console.log("Violence severity: ", result.body.violenceResult?.severity);
}

main().catch((err) => {
    console.error("The sample encountered an error:", err);
});
```

Run the application with the `node` command on your quickstart file.

```console
node index.js
```

## Output

```console
Hate severity:  0
SelfHarm severity:  0
Sexual severity:  0
Violence severity:  0
```
