articles/ai-foundry/openai/azure-government.md, before:

---
title: Azure OpenAI in Azure Government
titleSuffix: Azure OpenAI
description: Learn how to use Azure OpenAI in the Azure Government cloud.
author: challenp
ms.author: chaparker
ms.date: 11/26/2025
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.subservice: azure-ai-foundry-openai
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom:
  - references_regions
  - azuregovernment
  - build-2025
---

# Azure OpenAI and features in Azure Government

This article highlights the differences when using Azure OpenAI in Azure Government as compared to the commercial cloud offering. Learn more about the Azure OpenAI itself in [Azure OpenAI documentation](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/).
<br><br>

## Azure OpenAI models

Learn more about the different capabilities of each model in [Azure OpenAI models](../foundry-models/concepts/models-sold-directly-by-azure.md). For customers with [Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCDR) considerations](./how-to/business-continuity-disaster-recovery.md), take careful note of the deployment types, regions, and model availability as not all model/type combinations are available in both regions. 

The following sections show model availability by region and deployment type. Models and versions not listed are not currently available in Azure Government. For general limits, quotas, and other details refer to [Azure OpenAI quotas and limits](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/quotas-limits/). 

<br>

### USGov DataZone
Data zone deployments are available in the same Azure OpenAI resource as all other Azure OpenAI deployment types but allow you to leverage Azure Government infrastructure to dynamically route traffic to the data center within the USGov data zone with the best availability for each request.

* USGov DataZone provides access to the model from both usgovarizona and usgovvirginia.
* Data stored at rest remains in the designated Azure region of the resource.
* Data may be processed for inferencing in either of the two Azure Government regions.

<br>

### Standard deployment model availability
|   **Region**   | **gpt-4.1**, **2025-04-14** | **gpt-4.1-mini**, **2025-04-14** | **o3-mini** | **gpt-4o**, **2024-11-20** | **gpt-4o**, **2024-05-13** | **gpt-4o-mini**, **2024-07-18** | **text-embedding-3-large**, **1** | **text-embedding-3-small**, **1** | **text-embedding-ada-002**, **2** |
|:---------------|:---------------------------:|:--------------------------------:|:-----------:|:--------------------------:|:--------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|:---------------------------------:|:---------------------------------:|:---------------------------------:|
| usgovarizona   | ✅ | ✅ | - | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| usgovvirginia  | ✅ | ✅ | - | ✅ | ✅ | -  | - | - | ✅ |
| USGov DataZone |✅|✅|✅| ✅ | - | ✅  | - | - | - |

To request quota increases for these models, submit a request at [https://aka.ms/AOAIGovQuota](https://aka.ms/AOAIGovQuota). 

<br>

### Provisioned deployment model availability
|   **Region**  |  **o3-mini** |**gpt-4o**, **2024-11-20** | **gpt-4o**, **2024-05-13** | **gpt-4o-mini**, **2024-07-18** |
|:--------------|:------------:|:-------------------------:|:--------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
| usgovarizona   | - | ✅ | ✅ | - |
| usgovvirginia  | - | ✅ | ✅ | - |
| USGov DataZone | ✅| ✅| -  | ✅  |

<br>

### Model Capabilities
Not all model capabilities are deployed to Azure Government. General information can be found at [Foundry Models sold directly by Azure](/azure/ai-foundry/foundry-models/concepts/models-sold-directly-by-azure). The following shows any relevant differences in Azure Government.

|  Model ID  | Context window | 
|  --- |  :--- |
| `gpt-4.1` (2025-04-14)   | - 1,047,576 (not offered) <br> - 300,000 (standard & provisioned managed deployments) |
| `gpt-4.1-mini` (2025-04-14) | - 1,047,576 (not offered) <br> - 300,000 (standard & provisioned managed deployments) 

<br>

### Model Retirements
In some cases, models are retired in Azure Government earlier or later than in the commercial cloud. General information on model retirement policies, dates, and other details can be found at [Azure OpenAI in Microsoft Foundry model deprecations and retirements](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/concepts/model-retirements). The following shows model retirement differences in Azure Government. 

#### Early Model Retirements
| Model                     | Version			      | Azure Government Status	  | Public Retirement date  |
| --------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------|
| `gpt-35-turbo`            | 1106				      | Retired                   | November 14, 2025       |
| `gpt-4`                   | turbo-2024-04-09	| Retired                   | November 14, 2025       |

#### Late Model Retirements
| Model                     | Version			      | Azure Government Status	  | Public Retirement date  | Replacement Model   | Upgrade date       | Azure Government Retirement date |
| --------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------|---------------------|--------------------|----------------------------------|
| `gpt-35-turbo`            | 0125 				      | Active                    | November 14, 2025       | gpt-4.1-mini        | January 16, 2026   | February 15, 2026                |

<br>

### Default Model Versions 
In some cases, new model versions are designated as default in Azure Government ahead of dates in the commercial cloud. General information on model upgrades can be found at [Working with Azure OpenAI models](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/how-to/working-with-models?tabs=powershell&branch=main#model-deployment-upgrade-configuration)

The following shows default model differences in Azure Government. 

| Model     | Azure Government Default Version | Public Default Version | Default upgrade date          |
|-----------|----------------------------------|------------------------|-------------------------------|
|  `gpt-4o` | 2024-11-20                       | 2024-08-06             | Starting on October 13, 2025  |

<br>

## Azure OpenAI features

The following feature differences exist when comparing Azure OpenAI in Azure Government vs commercial cloud.

|Feature|Description|
|--------|--------|
| Batch Deployments | Not currently supported. |
| Connect your data | Virtual network and private links are supported. Deployment to a web app or a copilot in Copilot Studio is not supported. |
| Abuse Monitoring | Not all features of Abuse Monitoring are enabled for Azure OpenAI in Azure Government. You are responsible for implementing reasonable technical and operational measures to detect and mitigate any use of the service in violation of the Product Terms. [Automated Content Classification and Filtering](./concepts/content-filter.md) remains enabled by default for Azure Government. If modified content filters are required, apply at [https://aka.ms/AOAIGovModifyContentFilter](https://aka.ms/AOAIGovModifyContentFilter)|
| Data Storage | In Azure Government, there are no Azure OpenAI features currently enabled that store customer data at rest. However, Customer Managed Keys (CMK) can still be enabled in Azure Government to support use of the same policies in Azure Government as in Public cloud. Note also that if Azure OpenAI features that store customer data are enabled in Azure Government in the future, any existing CMK deployment would be applied to that data at that time. Learn more at [Azure OpenAI Data Privacy](/../azure/ai-foundry/responsible-ai/openai/data-privacy).|
| Compliance | View the current status of Azure OpenAI compliance in Azure Government at [Azure Government Services Audit Scope](/azure/azure-government/compliance/azure-services-in-fedramp-auditscope?branch=pr-en-us-76518#azure-government-services-by-audit-scope)|
| Service Endpoints | openai.azure.us |
| Key Portals | <ul><li>Foundry portal - ai.azure.us</li><li>Azure OpenAI Studio - aoai.azure.us</li><li>Azure portal - portal.azure.us</li></ul> |

Commit message:

Update model retirement details in Azure Government
Update 4o-mini and 4o-0513 dates for DZ/PTU

articles/ai-foundry/openai/azure-government.md, after:

---
title: Azure OpenAI in Azure Government
titleSuffix: Azure OpenAI
description: Learn how to use Azure OpenAI in the Azure Government cloud.
author: challenp
ms.author: chaparker
ms.date: 11/26/2025
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.subservice: azure-ai-foundry-openai
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom:
  - references_regions
  - azuregovernment
  - build-2025
---

# Azure OpenAI and features in Azure Government

This article highlights the differences when using Azure OpenAI in Azure Government as compared to the commercial cloud offering. Learn more about the Azure OpenAI itself in [Azure OpenAI documentation](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/).
<br><br>

## Azure OpenAI models

Learn more about the different capabilities of each model in [Azure OpenAI models](../foundry-models/concepts/models-sold-directly-by-azure.md). For customers with [Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCDR) considerations](./how-to/business-continuity-disaster-recovery.md), take careful note of the deployment types, regions, and model availability as not all model/type combinations are available in both regions. 

The following sections show model availability by region and deployment type. Models and versions not listed are not currently available in Azure Government. For general limits, quotas, and other details refer to [Azure OpenAI quotas and limits](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/quotas-limits/). 

<br>

### USGov DataZone
Data zone deployments are available in the same Azure OpenAI resource as all other Azure OpenAI deployment types but allow you to leverage Azure Government infrastructure to dynamically route traffic to the data center within the USGov data zone with the best availability for each request.

* USGov DataZone provides access to the model from both usgovarizona and usgovvirginia.
* Data stored at rest remains in the designated Azure region of the resource.
* Data may be processed for inferencing in either of the two Azure Government regions.

<br>

### Standard deployment model availability
|   **Region**   | **gpt-4.1**, **2025-04-14** | **gpt-4.1-mini**, **2025-04-14** | **o3-mini** | **gpt-4o**, **2024-11-20** | **gpt-4o**, **2024-05-13** | **gpt-4o-mini**, **2024-07-18** | **text-embedding-3-large**, **1** | **text-embedding-3-small**, **1** | **text-embedding-ada-002**, **2** |
|:---------------|:---------------------------:|:--------------------------------:|:-----------:|:--------------------------:|:--------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|:---------------------------------:|:---------------------------------:|:---------------------------------:|
| usgovarizona   | ✅ | ✅ | - | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| usgovvirginia  | ✅ | ✅ | - | ✅ | ✅ | -  | - | - | ✅ |
| USGov DataZone |✅|✅|✅| ✅ | - | ✅  | - | - | - |

To request quota increases for these models, submit a request at [https://aka.ms/AOAIGovQuota](https://aka.ms/AOAIGovQuota). 

<br>

### Provisioned deployment model availability
|   **Region**  |  **o3-mini** |**gpt-4o**, **2024-11-20** | **gpt-4o**, **2024-05-13** | **gpt-4o-mini**, **2024-07-18** |
|:--------------|:------------:|:-------------------------:|:--------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
| usgovarizona   | - | ✅ | ✅ | - |
| usgovvirginia  | - | ✅ | ✅ | - |
| USGov DataZone | ✅| ✅| -  | ✅  |

<br>

### Model Capabilities
Not all model capabilities are deployed to Azure Government. General information can be found at [Foundry Models sold directly by Azure](/azure/ai-foundry/foundry-models/concepts/models-sold-directly-by-azure). The following shows any relevant differences in Azure Government.

|  Model ID  | Context window | 
|  --- |  :--- |
| `gpt-4.1` (2025-04-14)   | - 1,047,576 (not offered) <br> - 300,000 (standard & provisioned managed deployments) |
| `gpt-4.1-mini` (2025-04-14) | - 1,047,576 (not offered) <br> - 300,000 (standard & provisioned managed deployments) 

<br>

### Model Retirements
In some cases, models are retired in Azure Government earlier or later than in the commercial cloud. General information on model retirement policies, dates, and other details can be found at [Azure OpenAI in Microsoft Foundry model deprecations and retirements](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/concepts/model-retirements). The following shows model retirement differences in Azure Government. 

#### Early Model Retirements
| Model                     | Version			      | Azure Government Status	  | Public Retirement date  |
| --------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------|
| `gpt-4o`                  | 0513              | March 31, 2026 (for all types)           | October 1, 2026 (for DataZone and PTU) |
| `gpt-4o-mini`             | 0718              | March 31, 2026 (for all types)           | October 1, 2026 (for DataZone and PTU) |

#### Late Model Retirements
| Model                     | Version			      | Azure Government Status	  | Public Retirement date  | Replacement Model   | Upgrade date       | Azure Government Retirement date |
| --------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------|---------------------|--------------------|----------------------------------|
| `gpt-35-turbo`            | 0125 				      | Active                    | November 14, 2025       | gpt-4.1-mini        | January 16, 2026   | February 15, 2026                |

<br>

### Default Model Versions 
In some cases, new model versions are designated as default in Azure Government ahead of dates in the commercial cloud. General information on model upgrades can be found at [Working with Azure OpenAI models](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/how-to/working-with-models?tabs=powershell&branch=main#model-deployment-upgrade-configuration)

The following shows default model differences in Azure Government. 

| Model     | Azure Government Default Version | Public Default Version | Default upgrade date          |
|-----------|----------------------------------|------------------------|-------------------------------|
|  `gpt-4o` | 2024-11-20                       | 2024-08-06             | Starting on October 13, 2025  |

<br>

## Azure OpenAI features

The following feature differences exist when comparing Azure OpenAI in Azure Government vs commercial cloud.

|Feature|Description|
|--------|--------|
| Batch Deployments | Not currently supported. |
| Connect your data | Virtual network and private links are supported. Deployment to a web app or a copilot in Copilot Studio is not supported. |
| Abuse Monitoring | Not all features of Abuse Monitoring are enabled for Azure OpenAI in Azure Government. You are responsible for implementing reasonable technical and operational measures to detect and mitigate any use of the service in violation of the Product Terms. [Automated Content Classification and Filtering](./concepts/content-filter.md) remains enabled by default for Azure Government. If modified content filters are required, apply at [https://aka.ms/AOAIGovModifyContentFilter](https://aka.ms/AOAIGovModifyContentFilter)|
| Data Storage | In Azure Government, there are no Azure OpenAI features currently enabled that store customer data at rest. However, Customer Managed Keys (CMK) can still be enabled in Azure Government to support use of the same policies in Azure Government as in Public cloud. Note also that if Azure OpenAI features that store customer data are enabled in Azure Government in the future, any existing CMK deployment would be applied to that data at that time. Learn more at [Azure OpenAI Data Privacy](/../azure/ai-foundry/responsible-ai/openai/data-privacy).|
| Compliance | View the current status of Azure OpenAI compliance in Azure Government at [Azure Government Services Audit Scope](/azure/azure-government/compliance/azure-services-in-fedramp-auditscope?branch=pr-en-us-76518#azure-government-services-by-audit-scope)|
| Service Endpoints | openai.azure.us |
| Key Portals | <ul><li>Foundry portal - ai.azure.us</li><li>Azure OpenAI Studio - aoai.azure.us</li><li>Azure portal - portal.azure.us</li></ul> |
