articles/ai-foundry/foundry-local/reference/reference-rest.md, before:

---
title: Foundry Local REST API Reference
titleSuffix: Foundry Local
description: Complete reference guide for the Foundry Local REST API.
manager: scottpolly
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.subservice: foundry-local
ms.custom: build-2025
ms.author: jburchel
ms.reviewer: samkemp
author: jburchel
reviewer: samuel100
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.date: 05/20/2025
---

# Foundry Local REST API Reference

[!INCLUDE [foundry-local-preview](./../includes/foundry-local-preview.md)]

> [!CAUTION]
> This API is under active development and may include breaking changes without notice. We strongly recommend monitoring the changelog before building production applications.

## OpenAI v1 compatibility

### POST /v1/chat/completions

This endpoint processes chat completion requests.  
Fully compatible with the [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/chat/create)

**Request Body:**

_---Standard OpenAI Properties---_

- `model` (string)  
  The specific model to use for completion.
- `messages` (array)  
  The conversation history as a list of messages.
  - Each message requires:
    - `role` (string)  
      The message sender's role. Must be `system`, `user`, or `assistant`.
    - `content` (string)  
      The actual message text.
- `temperature` (number, optional)  
  Controls randomness, ranging from 0 to 2. Higher values (0.8) create varied outputs, while lower values (0.2) create focused, consistent outputs.
- `top_p` (number, optional)  
  Controls token selection diversity from 0 to 1. A value of 0.1 means only the tokens in the top 10% probability are considered.
- `n` (integer, optional)  
  Number of alternative completions to generate for each input message.
- `stream` (boolean, optional)  
  When true, sends partial message responses as server-sent events, ending with a `data: [DONE]` message.
- `stop` (string or array, optional)  
  Up to 4 sequences that will cause the model to stop generating further tokens.
- `max_tokens` (integer, optional)  
  Maximum number of tokens to generate. For newer models, use `max_completion_tokens` instead.
- `max_completion_token` (integer, optional)  
  Maximum token limit for generation, including both visible output and reasoning tokens.
- `presence_penalty` (number, optional)  
  Value between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values encourage the model to discuss new topics by penalizing tokens that have already appeared.
- `frequency_penalty` (number, optional)  
  Value between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values discourage repetition by penalizing tokens based on their frequency in the text.
- `logit_bias` (map, optional)  
  Adjusts the probability of specific tokens appearing in the completion.
- `user` (string, optional)  
  A unique identifier for your end-user that helps with monitoring and abuse prevention.
- `functions` (array, optional)  
  Available functions for which the model can generate JSON inputs.
  - Each function must include:
    - `name` (string)  
      Function name.
    - `description` (string)  
      Function description.
    - `parameters` (object)  
      Function parameters described as a JSON Schema object.
- `function_call` (string or object, optional)  
  Controls how the model responds to function calls.
  - If object, may include:
    - `name` (string, optional)  
      The name of the function to call.
    - `arguments` (object, optional)  
      The arguments to pass to the function.
- `metadata` (object, optional)  
  A dictionary of metadata key-value pairs.
- `top_k` (number, optional)  
  The number of highest probability vocabulary tokens to keep for top-k-filtering.
- `random_seed` (integer, optional)  
  Seed for reproducible random number generation.
- `ep` (string, optional)  
  Overwrite the provider for ONNX models. Supports: `"dml"`, `"cuda"`, `"qnn"`, `"cpu"`, `"webgpu"`.
- `ttl` (integer, optional)  
  Time to live in seconds for the model in memory.
- `tools` (object, optional)  
  Tools calculated for the request.

**Response body:**

- `id` (string)  
  Unique identifier for the chat completion.
- `object` (string)  
  The object type, always `"chat.completion"`.
- `created` (integer)  
  Creation timestamp in epoch seconds.
- `model` (string)  
  The model used for completion.
- `choices` (array)  
  List of completion choices, each containing:
  - `index` (integer)  
    The index of this choice.
  - `message` (object)  
    The generated message with:
    - `role` (string)  
      Always `"assistant"` for responses.
    - `content` (string)  
      The actual generated text.
  - `finish_reason` (string)  
    Why generation stopped (e.g., `"stop"`, `"length"`, `"function_call"`).
- `usage` (object)  
  Token usage statistics:
  - `prompt_tokens` (integer)  
    Tokens in the prompt.
  - `completion_tokens` (integer)  
    Tokens in the completion.
  - `total_tokens` (integer)  
    Total tokens used.

**Example:**

- Request body
  ```json
  {
    "model": "Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu",
    "messages": [
      {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Hello, how are you?"
      }
    ],
    "temperature": 0.7,
    "top_p": 1,
    "n": 1,
    "stream": false,
    "stop": null,
    "max_tokens": 100,
    "presence_penalty": 0,
    "frequency_penalty": 0,
    "logit_bias": {},
    "user": "user_id_123",
    "functions": [],
    "function_call": null,
    "metadata": {}
  }
  ```
- Response body
  ```json
  {
    "id": "chatcmpl-1234567890",
    "object": "chat.completion",
    "created": 1677851234,
    "model": "Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu",
    "choices": [
      {
        "index": 0,
        "message": {
          "role": "assistant",
          "content": "I'm doing well, thank you! How can I assist you today?"
        },
        "finish_reason": "stop"
      }
    ],
    "usage": {
      "prompt_tokens": 10,
      "completion_tokens": 20,
      "total_tokens": 30
    }
  }
  ```

### POST /v1/embeddings

Handles embedding generation requests.  
Compatible with the [OpenAI Embeddings API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/embeddings/create)

**Request Body:**

- `model` (string)  
  The embedding model to use (e.g., `"text-embedding-ada-002"`).
- `input` (string or array)  
  Input text to embed. Can be a single string or an array of strings/tokens.
- `encoding_format` (string, optional)  
  The encoding format (`"base64"` or `"float"`).

**Response body:**

- `object` (string)  
  Always `"list"`.
- `data` (array)  
  List of embedding objects, each containing:
  - `object` (string)  
    Always `"embedding"`.
  - `embedding` (array)  
    The vector representation of the input text.
  - `index` (integer)  
    The position of this embedding in the input array.
- `model` (string)  
  The model used for embedding generation.
- `usage` (object)  
  Token usage statistics:
  - `prompt_tokens` (integer)  
    Number of tokens in the prompt.
  - `total_tokens` (integer)  
    Total tokens used.

**Example:**

- Request body
  ```json
  {
    "model": "qwen_w_embeddings",
    "input": "Hello, how are you?"
  }
  ```
- Response body
  ```json
  {
    "object": "list",
    "data": [
      {
        "object": "embedding",
        "embedding": [0.1, 0.2, 0.3, ...],
        "index": 0
      }
    ],
    "model": "qwen_w_embeddings",
    "usage": {
      "prompt_tokens": 10,
      "total_tokens": 10
    }
  }
  ```

## Custom API

### GET /foundry/list

Retrieves a list of all available Foundry Local models in the catalog.

**Response:**

- `models` (array)  
  List of model objects, each containing:
  - `name`: The unique identifier for the model.
  - `displayName`: A human-readable name for the model, often the same as the name.
  - `providerType`: The type of provider hosting the model (e.g., AzureFoundry).
  - `uri`: The resource URI pointing to the model's location in the registry.
  - `version`: The version number of the model.
  - `modelType`: The format or type of the model (e.g., ONNX).
  - `promptTemplate`:
    - `assistant`: The template for the assistant's response.
    - `prompt`: The template for the user-assistant interaction.
  - `publisher`: The entity or organization that published the model.
  - `task`: The primary task the model is designed to perform (e.g., chat-completion).
  - `runtime`:
    - `deviceType`: The type of hardware the model is designed to run on (e.g., CPU).
    - `executionProvider`: The execution provider used for running the model.
  - `fileSizeMb`: The size of the model file in megabytes.
  - `modelSettings`:
    - `parameters`: A list of configurable parameters for the model.
  - `alias`: An alternative name or shorthand for the model
  - `supportsToolCalling`: Indicates whether the model supports tool-calling functionality.
  - `license`: The license type under which the model is distributed.
  - `licenseDescription`: A detailed description or link to the license terms.
  - `parentModelUri`: The URI of the parent model from which this model is derived.

### POST /openai/register

Registers an external model provider for use with Foundry Local.

**Request Body:**

- `TypeName` (string)  
  Provider name (e.g., `"deepseek"`)
- `ModelName` (string)  
  Model name to register (e.g., `"deepseek-chat"`)
- `BaseUri` (string)  
  The OpenAI-compatible base URI for the provider

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  Empty response body

**Example:**

- Request body
  ```json
  {
    "TypeName": "deepseek",
    "ModelName": "deepseek-chat",
    "BaseUri": "https://api.deepseek.com/v1"
  }
  ```

### GET /openai/models

Retrieves all available models, including both local models and registered external models.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  An array of model names as strings.

**Example:**

- Response body
  ```json
  ["Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu", "phi-3.5-mini-instruct-generic-cpu"]
  ```

### GET /openai/load/{name}

Loads a model into memory for faster inference.

**URI Parameters:**

- `name` (string)  
  The model name to load.

**Query Parameters:**

- `unload` (boolean, optional)  
  Whether to automatically unload the model after idle time. Defaults to `true`.
- `ttl` (integer, optional)  
  Time to live in seconds. If greater than 0, overrides `unload` parameter.
- `ep` (string, optional)  
  Execution provider to run this model. Supports: `"dml"`, `"cuda"`, `"qnn"`, `"cpu"`, `"webgpu"`.  
  If not specified, uses settings from `genai_config.json`.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  Empty response body

**Example:**

- Request URI
  ```
  GET /openai/load/Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu?ttl=3600&ep=dml
  ```

### GET /openai/unload/{name}

Unloads a model from memory.

**URI Parameters:**

- `name` (string)  
  The model name to unload.

**Query Parameters:**

- `force` (boolean, optional)  
  If `true`, ignores TTL settings and unloads immediately.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  Empty response body

**Example:**

- Request URI
  ```
  GET /openai/unload/Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu?force=true
  ```

### GET /openai/unloadall

Unloads all models from memory.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  Empty response body

### GET /openai/loadedmodels

Retrieves a list of currently loaded models.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  An array of model names as strings.

**Example:**

- Response body
  ```json
  ["Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu", "phi-3.5-mini-instruct-generic-cpu"]
  ```

### GET /openai/getgpudevice

Retrieves the currently selected GPU device ID.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  An integer representing the current GPU device ID.

### GET /openai/setgpudevice/{deviceId}

Sets the active GPU device.

**URI Parameters:**

- `deviceId` (integer)  
  The GPU device ID to use.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  Empty response body

**Example:**

- Request URI
  ```
  GET /openai/setgpudevice/1
  ```

### POST /openai/download

Downloads a model to local storage.

> [!NOTE]
> Model downloads can take significant time, especially for large models. We recommend setting a high timeout for this request to avoid premature termination.

**Request Body:**

- `model` (`WorkspaceInferenceModel` object)  
  - `Uri` (string)  
    The model URI to download.
  - `Name` (string)
    The model name.
  - `ProviderType` (string, optional)  
    The provider type (e.g., `"AzureFoundryLocal"`,`"HuggingFace"`).
  - `Path` (string, optional)  
    The remote path where the model is located stored. For example, in a Hugging Face repository, this would be the path to the model files.
  - `PromptTemplate` (`Dictionary<string, string>`, optional)  
    Contains:
    - `system` (string, optional)  
      The template for the system message.
    - `user` (string, optional)
      The template for the user's message.
    - `assistant` (string, optional)  
      The template for the assistant's response.
    - `prompt` (string, optional)  
      The template for the user-assistant interaction.
  - `Publisher` (string, optional)  
      The publisher of the model.
- `token` (string, optional)  
  Authentication token for protected models (GitHub or Hugging Face).
- `progressToken` (object, optional)  
  For AITK only. Token to track download progress.
- `customDirPath` (string, optional)  
  Custom download directory (used for CLI, not needed for AITK).
- `bufferSize` (integer, optional)  
  HTTP download buffer size in KB. No effect on NIM or Azure Foundry models.
- `ignorePipeReport` (boolean, optional)  
  If `true`, forces progress reporting via HTTP stream instead of pipe.
  Defaults to `false` for AITK and `true` for Foundry Local.

**Streaming Response:**

During download, the server streams progress updates in the format:

```
("file name", percentage_complete)
```

**Final Response body:**

- `Success` (boolean)  
  Whether the download completed successfully.
- `ErrorMessage` (string, optional)  
  Error details if download failed.

**Example:**

- Request body

```json
{
  "model":{
    "Uri": "azureml://registries/azureml/models/Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu/versions/4",
    "ProviderType": "AzureFoundryLocal",
    "Name": "Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu",
    "Publisher": "",
    "promptTemplate" : {
      "system": "<|system|>{Content}<|end|>",
      "user": "<|user|>{Content}<|end|>", 
      "assistant": "<|assistant|>{Content}<|end|>", 
      "prompt": "<|user|>{Content}<|end|><|assistant|>"
    }
  }
}
```

- Response stream

  ```
  ("genai_config.json", 0.01)
  ("genai_config.json", 0.2)
  ("model.onnx.data", 0.5)
  ("model.onnx.data", 0.78)
  ...
  ("", 1)
  ```

- Final response
  ```json
  {
    "Success": true,
    "ErrorMessage": null
  }
  ```

### GET /openai/status

Retrieves server status information.

**Response body:**

- `Endpoints` (array of strings)  
  The HTTP server binding endpoints.
- `ModelDirPath` (string)  
  Directory where local models are stored.
- `PipeName` (string)  
  The current NamedPipe server name.

**Example:**

- Response body
  ```json
  {
    "Endpoints": ["http://localhost:5272"],
    "ModelDirPath": "/path/to/models",
    "PipeName": "inference_agent"
  }
  ```

### POST /v1/chat/completions/tokenizer/encode/count

Counts tokens for a given chat completion request without performing inference.

**Request Body:**

- Content-Type: application/json
- JSON object in `ChatCompletionCreateRequest` format with:
  - `model` (string)  
    Model to use for tokenization.
  - `messages` (array)  
    Array of message objects with `role` and `content`.

**Response Body:**

- Content-Type: application/json
- JSON object with token count:
  - `tokenCount` (integer)  
    Number of tokens in the request.

**Example:**

- Request body
  ```json
  {
    "messages": [
      {
        "role": "system",
        "content": "This is a system message"
      },
      {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Hello, what is Microsoft?"
      }
    ],
    "model": "Phi-4-mini-instruct-cuda-gpu"
  }
  ```
- Response body
  ```json
  {
    "tokenCount": 23
  }
  ```

Commit message:

docs: document dynamic port assignment in Foundry Local reference
Foundry Local assigns a dynamic port on each service start. This commit:
- Adds a NOTE callout in the REST API reference for GET /openai/status explaining the port is dynamically assigned
- Updates the CLI reference to note that 'foundry service status' shows the dynamically assigned endpoint URL

Related to microsoft/Foundry-Local#424

articles/ai-foundry/foundry-local/reference/reference-rest.md, after:

---
title: Foundry Local REST API Reference
titleSuffix: Foundry Local
description: Complete reference guide for the Foundry Local REST API.
manager: scottpolly
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.subservice: foundry-local
ms.custom: build-2025
ms.author: jburchel
ms.reviewer: samkemp
author: jburchel
reviewer: samuel100
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.date: 05/20/2025
---

# Foundry Local REST API Reference

[!INCLUDE [foundry-local-preview](./../includes/foundry-local-preview.md)]

> [!CAUTION]
> This API is under active development and may include breaking changes without notice. We strongly recommend monitoring the changelog before building production applications.

## OpenAI v1 compatibility

### POST /v1/chat/completions

This endpoint processes chat completion requests.  
Fully compatible with the [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/chat/create)

**Request Body:**

_---Standard OpenAI Properties---_

- `model` (string)  
  The specific model to use for completion.
- `messages` (array)  
  The conversation history as a list of messages.
  - Each message requires:
    - `role` (string)  
      The message sender's role. Must be `system`, `user`, or `assistant`.
    - `content` (string)  
      The actual message text.
- `temperature` (number, optional)  
  Controls randomness, ranging from 0 to 2. Higher values (0.8) create varied outputs, while lower values (0.2) create focused, consistent outputs.
- `top_p` (number, optional)  
  Controls token selection diversity from 0 to 1. A value of 0.1 means only the tokens in the top 10% probability are considered.
- `n` (integer, optional)  
  Number of alternative completions to generate for each input message.
- `stream` (boolean, optional)  
  When true, sends partial message responses as server-sent events, ending with a `data: [DONE]` message.
- `stop` (string or array, optional)  
  Up to 4 sequences that will cause the model to stop generating further tokens.
- `max_tokens` (integer, optional)  
  Maximum number of tokens to generate. For newer models, use `max_completion_tokens` instead.
- `max_completion_token` (integer, optional)  
  Maximum token limit for generation, including both visible output and reasoning tokens.
- `presence_penalty` (number, optional)  
  Value between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values encourage the model to discuss new topics by penalizing tokens that have already appeared.
- `frequency_penalty` (number, optional)  
  Value between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values discourage repetition by penalizing tokens based on their frequency in the text.
- `logit_bias` (map, optional)  
  Adjusts the probability of specific tokens appearing in the completion.
- `user` (string, optional)  
  A unique identifier for your end-user that helps with monitoring and abuse prevention.
- `functions` (array, optional)  
  Available functions for which the model can generate JSON inputs.
  - Each function must include:
    - `name` (string)  
      Function name.
    - `description` (string)  
      Function description.
    - `parameters` (object)  
      Function parameters described as a JSON Schema object.
- `function_call` (string or object, optional)  
  Controls how the model responds to function calls.
  - If object, may include:
    - `name` (string, optional)  
      The name of the function to call.
    - `arguments` (object, optional)  
      The arguments to pass to the function.
- `metadata` (object, optional)  
  A dictionary of metadata key-value pairs.
- `top_k` (number, optional)  
  The number of highest probability vocabulary tokens to keep for top-k-filtering.
- `random_seed` (integer, optional)  
  Seed for reproducible random number generation.
- `ep` (string, optional)  
  Overwrite the provider for ONNX models. Supports: `"dml"`, `"cuda"`, `"qnn"`, `"cpu"`, `"webgpu"`.
- `ttl` (integer, optional)  
  Time to live in seconds for the model in memory.
- `tools` (object, optional)  
  Tools calculated for the request.

**Response body:**

- `id` (string)  
  Unique identifier for the chat completion.
- `object` (string)  
  The object type, always `"chat.completion"`.
- `created` (integer)  
  Creation timestamp in epoch seconds.
- `model` (string)  
  The model used for completion.
- `choices` (array)  
  List of completion choices, each containing:
  - `index` (integer)  
    The index of this choice.
  - `message` (object)  
    The generated message with:
    - `role` (string)  
      Always `"assistant"` for responses.
    - `content` (string)  
      The actual generated text.
  - `finish_reason` (string)  
    Why generation stopped (e.g., `"stop"`, `"length"`, `"function_call"`).
- `usage` (object)  
  Token usage statistics:
  - `prompt_tokens` (integer)  
    Tokens in the prompt.
  - `completion_tokens` (integer)  
    Tokens in the completion.
  - `total_tokens` (integer)  
    Total tokens used.

**Example:**

- Request body
  ```json
  {
    "model": "Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu",
    "messages": [
      {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Hello, how are you?"
      }
    ],
    "temperature": 0.7,
    "top_p": 1,
    "n": 1,
    "stream": false,
    "stop": null,
    "max_tokens": 100,
    "presence_penalty": 0,
    "frequency_penalty": 0,
    "logit_bias": {},
    "user": "user_id_123",
    "functions": [],
    "function_call": null,
    "metadata": {}
  }
  ```
- Response body
  ```json
  {
    "id": "chatcmpl-1234567890",
    "object": "chat.completion",
    "created": 1677851234,
    "model": "Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu",
    "choices": [
      {
        "index": 0,
        "message": {
          "role": "assistant",
          "content": "I'm doing well, thank you! How can I assist you today?"
        },
        "finish_reason": "stop"
      }
    ],
    "usage": {
      "prompt_tokens": 10,
      "completion_tokens": 20,
      "total_tokens": 30
    }
  }
  ```

### POST /v1/embeddings

Handles embedding generation requests.  
Compatible with the [OpenAI Embeddings API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/embeddings/create)

**Request Body:**

- `model` (string)  
  The embedding model to use (e.g., `"text-embedding-ada-002"`).
- `input` (string or array)  
  Input text to embed. Can be a single string or an array of strings/tokens.
- `encoding_format` (string, optional)  
  The encoding format (`"base64"` or `"float"`).

**Response body:**

- `object` (string)  
  Always `"list"`.
- `data` (array)  
  List of embedding objects, each containing:
  - `object` (string)  
    Always `"embedding"`.
  - `embedding` (array)  
    The vector representation of the input text.
  - `index` (integer)  
    The position of this embedding in the input array.
- `model` (string)  
  The model used for embedding generation.
- `usage` (object)  
  Token usage statistics:
  - `prompt_tokens` (integer)  
    Number of tokens in the prompt.
  - `total_tokens` (integer)  
    Total tokens used.

**Example:**

- Request body
  ```json
  {
    "model": "qwen_w_embeddings",
    "input": "Hello, how are you?"
  }
  ```
- Response body
  ```json
  {
    "object": "list",
    "data": [
      {
        "object": "embedding",
        "embedding": [0.1, 0.2, 0.3, ...],
        "index": 0
      }
    ],
    "model": "qwen_w_embeddings",
    "usage": {
      "prompt_tokens": 10,
      "total_tokens": 10
    }
  }
  ```

## Custom API

### GET /foundry/list

Retrieves a list of all available Foundry Local models in the catalog.

**Response:**

- `models` (array)  
  List of model objects, each containing:
  - `name`: The unique identifier for the model.
  - `displayName`: A human-readable name for the model, often the same as the name.
  - `providerType`: The type of provider hosting the model (e.g., AzureFoundry).
  - `uri`: The resource URI pointing to the model's location in the registry.
  - `version`: The version number of the model.
  - `modelType`: The format or type of the model (e.g., ONNX).
  - `promptTemplate`:
    - `assistant`: The template for the assistant's response.
    - `prompt`: The template for the user-assistant interaction.
  - `publisher`: The entity or organization that published the model.
  - `task`: The primary task the model is designed to perform (e.g., chat-completion).
  - `runtime`:
    - `deviceType`: The type of hardware the model is designed to run on (e.g., CPU).
    - `executionProvider`: The execution provider used for running the model.
  - `fileSizeMb`: The size of the model file in megabytes.
  - `modelSettings`:
    - `parameters`: A list of configurable parameters for the model.
  - `alias`: An alternative name or shorthand for the model
  - `supportsToolCalling`: Indicates whether the model supports tool-calling functionality.
  - `license`: The license type under which the model is distributed.
  - `licenseDescription`: A detailed description or link to the license terms.
  - `parentModelUri`: The URI of the parent model from which this model is derived.

### POST /openai/register

Registers an external model provider for use with Foundry Local.

**Request Body:**

- `TypeName` (string)  
  Provider name (e.g., `"deepseek"`)
- `ModelName` (string)  
  Model name to register (e.g., `"deepseek-chat"`)
- `BaseUri` (string)  
  The OpenAI-compatible base URI for the provider

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  Empty response body

**Example:**

- Request body
  ```json
  {
    "TypeName": "deepseek",
    "ModelName": "deepseek-chat",
    "BaseUri": "https://api.deepseek.com/v1"
  }
  ```

### GET /openai/models

Retrieves all available models, including both local models and registered external models.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  An array of model names as strings.

**Example:**

- Response body
  ```json
  ["Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu", "phi-3.5-mini-instruct-generic-cpu"]
  ```

### GET /openai/load/{name}

Loads a model into memory for faster inference.

**URI Parameters:**

- `name` (string)  
  The model name to load.

**Query Parameters:**

- `unload` (boolean, optional)  
  Whether to automatically unload the model after idle time. Defaults to `true`.
- `ttl` (integer, optional)  
  Time to live in seconds. If greater than 0, overrides `unload` parameter.
- `ep` (string, optional)  
  Execution provider to run this model. Supports: `"dml"`, `"cuda"`, `"qnn"`, `"cpu"`, `"webgpu"`.  
  If not specified, uses settings from `genai_config.json`.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  Empty response body

**Example:**

- Request URI
  ```
  GET /openai/load/Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu?ttl=3600&ep=dml
  ```

### GET /openai/unload/{name}

Unloads a model from memory.

**URI Parameters:**

- `name` (string)  
  The model name to unload.

**Query Parameters:**

- `force` (boolean, optional)  
  If `true`, ignores TTL settings and unloads immediately.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  Empty response body

**Example:**

- Request URI
  ```
  GET /openai/unload/Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu?force=true
  ```

### GET /openai/unloadall

Unloads all models from memory.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  Empty response body

### GET /openai/loadedmodels

Retrieves a list of currently loaded models.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  An array of model names as strings.

**Example:**

- Response body
  ```json
  ["Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu", "phi-3.5-mini-instruct-generic-cpu"]
  ```

### GET /openai/getgpudevice

Retrieves the currently selected GPU device ID.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  An integer representing the current GPU device ID.

### GET /openai/setgpudevice/{deviceId}

Sets the active GPU device.

**URI Parameters:**

- `deviceId` (integer)  
  The GPU device ID to use.

**Response:**

- 200 OK  
  Empty response body

**Example:**

- Request URI
  ```
  GET /openai/setgpudevice/1
  ```

### POST /openai/download

Downloads a model to local storage.

> [!NOTE]
> Model downloads can take significant time, especially for large models. We recommend setting a high timeout for this request to avoid premature termination.

**Request Body:**

- `model` (`WorkspaceInferenceModel` object)  
  - `Uri` (string)  
    The model URI to download.
  - `Name` (string)
    The model name.
  - `ProviderType` (string, optional)  
    The provider type (e.g., `"AzureFoundryLocal"`,`"HuggingFace"`).
  - `Path` (string, optional)  
    The remote path where the model is located stored. For example, in a Hugging Face repository, this would be the path to the model files.
  - `PromptTemplate` (`Dictionary<string, string>`, optional)  
    Contains:
    - `system` (string, optional)  
      The template for the system message.
    - `user` (string, optional)
      The template for the user's message.
    - `assistant` (string, optional)  
      The template for the assistant's response.
    - `prompt` (string, optional)  
      The template for the user-assistant interaction.
  - `Publisher` (string, optional)  
      The publisher of the model.
- `token` (string, optional)  
  Authentication token for protected models (GitHub or Hugging Face).
- `progressToken` (object, optional)  
  For AITK only. Token to track download progress.
- `customDirPath` (string, optional)  
  Custom download directory (used for CLI, not needed for AITK).
- `bufferSize` (integer, optional)  
  HTTP download buffer size in KB. No effect on NIM or Azure Foundry models.
- `ignorePipeReport` (boolean, optional)  
  If `true`, forces progress reporting via HTTP stream instead of pipe.
  Defaults to `false` for AITK and `true` for Foundry Local.

**Streaming Response:**

During download, the server streams progress updates in the format:

```
("file name", percentage_complete)
```

**Final Response body:**

- `Success` (boolean)  
  Whether the download completed successfully.
- `ErrorMessage` (string, optional)  
  Error details if download failed.

**Example:**

- Request body

```json
{
  "model":{
    "Uri": "azureml://registries/azureml/models/Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu/versions/4",
    "ProviderType": "AzureFoundryLocal",
    "Name": "Phi-4-mini-instruct-generic-cpu",
    "Publisher": "",
    "promptTemplate" : {
      "system": "<|system|>{Content}<|end|>",
      "user": "<|user|>{Content}<|end|>", 
      "assistant": "<|assistant|>{Content}<|end|>", 
      "prompt": "<|user|>{Content}<|end|><|assistant|>"
    }
  }
}
```

- Response stream

  ```
  ("genai_config.json", 0.01)
  ("genai_config.json", 0.2)
  ("model.onnx.data", 0.5)
  ("model.onnx.data", 0.78)
  ...
  ("", 1)
  ```

- Final response
  ```json
  {
    "Success": true,
    "ErrorMessage": null
  }
  ```

### GET /openai/status

Retrieves server status information.

> [!NOTE]
> The port shown in the `Endpoints` array is **dynamically assigned** when the service starts. Do not hardcode a specific port number. Use this endpoint or run `foundry service status` to discover the current URL.

**Response body:**

- `Endpoints` (array of strings)  
  The HTTP server binding endpoints.
- `ModelDirPath` (string)  
  Directory where local models are stored.
- `PipeName` (string)  
  The current NamedPipe server name.

**Example:**

- Response body
  ```json
  {
    "Endpoints": ["http://localhost:5272"],
    "ModelDirPath": "/path/to/models",
    "PipeName": "inference_agent"
  }
  ```

### POST /v1/chat/completions/tokenizer/encode/count

Counts tokens for a given chat completion request without performing inference.

**Request Body:**

- Content-Type: application/json
- JSON object in `ChatCompletionCreateRequest` format with:
  - `model` (string)  
    Model to use for tokenization.
  - `messages` (array)  
    Array of message objects with `role` and `content`.

**Response Body:**

- Content-Type: application/json
- JSON object with token count:
  - `tokenCount` (integer)  
    Number of tokens in the request.

**Example:**

- Request body
  ```json
  {
    "messages": [
      {
        "role": "system",
        "content": "This is a system message"
      },
      {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Hello, what is Microsoft?"
      }
    ],
    "model": "Phi-4-mini-instruct-cuda-gpu"
  }
  ```
- Response body
  ```json
  {
    "tokenCount": 23
  }
  ```
