articles/ai-foundry/concepts/observability.md, before:

---
title: Observability in Generative AI
titleSuffix: Microsoft Foundry
description: Learn how Microsoft Foundry enables safe, high-quality generative AI through systematic evaluation and observability tools.
monikerRange: 'foundry-classic || foundry'
ai-usage: ai-assisted
author: lgayhardt
ms.author: lagayhar
ms.reviewer: skohlmeier
ms.date: 01/16/2026
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.custom:
  - build-aifnd
  - build-2025
---

# Observability in generative AI

[!INCLUDE [version-banner](../includes/version-banner.md)]  

[!INCLUDE [feature-preview](../includes/feature-preview.md)]

The AI application lifecycle requires robust evaluation frameworks to ensure AI systems deliver accurate, relevant, and reliable outputs. Without rigorous assessment, AI systems risk generating responses that are inaccurate, inconsistent, poorly grounded, or potentially harmful. Observability enables teams to measure and improve both the quality and safety of AI outputs throughout the development lifecycle—from model selection through production monitoring.

[!INCLUDE [evaluation-preview](../includes/evaluation-preview.md)]

## What is observability?

AI observability refers to the ability to monitor, understand, and troubleshoot AI systems throughout their lifecycle. Teams can trace and evaluate locally in their development environment, integrate automated quality gates into CI/CD pipelines (see [Evaluate with GitHub Actions](../how-to/develop/evaluation-github-action.md) and [Evaluate with Azure DevOps](../how-to/develop/evaluation-azure-devops.md)), and collect signals such as evaluation metrics, logs, traces, and model outputs to gain visibility into performance, quality, safety, and operational health.

## Core observability capabilities

Microsoft Foundry provides three core capabilities that work together to deliver comprehensive observability across the AI application lifecycle:

### Evaluation

Evaluators measure the quality, safety, and reliability of AI responses throughout development. Microsoft Foundry provides built-in evaluators for general-purpose quality metrics (coherence, fluency), RAG-specific metrics (groundedness, relevance), safety and security (hate/unfairness, violence, protected materials), and agent-specific metrics (tool call accuracy, task completion). Teams can also build custom evaluators tailored to their domain-specific requirements.

For a complete list of built-in evaluators, see [Built-in evaluators reference](built-in-evaluators.md).

### Monitoring

Production monitoring ensures your deployed AI applications maintain quality and performance in real-world conditions. Integrated with Azure Monitor Application Insights, Microsoft Foundry delivers real-time dashboards tracking operational metrics, token consumption, latency, error rates, and quality scores. Teams can set up alerts when outputs fail quality thresholds or produce harmful content, enabling rapid issue resolution.

For details on setting up production monitoring, see [Monitor agents dashboard](../default/agents/how-to/how-to-monitor-agents-dashboard.md).

### Tracing

Distributed tracing captures the execution flow of AI applications, providing visibility into LLM calls, tool invocations, agent decisions, and inter-service dependencies. Built on OpenTelemetry standards and integrated with Application Insights, tracing enables debugging complex agent behaviors, identifying performance bottlenecks, and understanding multi-step reasoning chains. Microsoft Foundry supports tracing for popular frameworks including LangChain, Semantic Kernel, and the OpenAI Agents SDK.

For guidance on implementing tracing, see [Trace your application](../how-to/develop/trace-application.md) and [Trace with Agents SDK](../how-to/develop/trace-agents-sdk.md).

## What are evaluators?

Evaluators are specialized tools that measure the quality, safety, and reliability of AI responses throughout the development lifecycle.

For a complete list of built-in evaluators, see [Built-in evaluators reference](built-in-evaluators.md).

Evaluators integrate into each stage of the AI lifecycle to ensure reliability, safety, and effectiveness.

:::image type="content" source="../media/evaluations/lifecycle.png" alt-text="Diagram of AI application lifecycle, showing model selection, building an AI application, and operationalizing." lightbox="../media/evaluations/lifecycle.png":::

## The three stages of AI application lifecycle evaluation

### Base model selection

Select the right foundation model by comparing quality, task performance, ethical considerations, and safety profiles across different models.

**Tools available**: [Microsoft Foundry benchmark](model-benchmarks.md) for comparing models on public datasets or your own data, and the Azure AI Evaluation SDK for [testing specific model endpoints](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azureai-samples/blob/main/scenarios/evaluate/Supported_Evaluation_Targets/Evaluate_Base_Model_Endpoint/Evaluate_Base_Model_Endpoint.ipynb).

### Pre-production evaluation

Before deployment, thorough testing ensures your AI agent or application is production-ready. This stage validates performance through evaluation datasets, identifies edge cases, assesses robustness, and measures key metrics including task adherence, groundedness, relevance, and safety. For building production-ready agents with multi-turn conversations, tool calling, and state management, see [Foundry Agent Service](../default/agents/overview.md).

:::image type="content" source="../media/evaluations/evaluation-models-diagram.png" alt-text="Diagram of Pre-production evaluation for models and applications with the six steps." lightbox="../media/evaluations/evaluation-models-diagram.png ":::

**Evaluation tools and approaches:**

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

- **Bring your own data**: Evaluate AI agents and applications using your own data with quality, safety, or [custom evaluators](./evaluation-evaluators/custom-evaluators.md). Use Foundry's evaluation wizard or [Azure AI Evaluation SDK](../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md) and [view results in the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-results.md).

- **AI red teaming agent**: The [AI red teaming agent](../how-to/develop/run-scans-ai-red-teaming-agent.md) simulates complex adversarial attacks using Microsoft's PyRIT framework to identify safety and security vulnerabilities. Best used with human-in-the-loop processes.

Alternatively, you can also use [the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app.md) for testing your generative AI applications.

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="foundry"

- **Bring your own data**: Evaluate AI applications using your own data with quality, safety, or [custom evaluators](./evaluation-evaluators/custom-evaluators.md). Use Foundry's evaluation wizard or [Foundry SDK](../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md) and [view results in the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-results.md).

- **AI red teaming agent**: The [AI red teaming agent](../how-to/develop/run-scans-ai-red-teaming-agent.md) simulates complex attacks using Microsoft's PyRIT framework to identify safety and security vulnerabilities before deployment. Best used with human-in-the-loop processes.

You can also use [the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app.md) for testing generative AI applications.

::: moniker-end

### Post-production monitoring

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"
After deployment, continuous monitoring ensures your AI application maintains quality in real-world conditions:
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="foundry"
After deployment, [continuous monitoring](../default/agents/how-to/how-to-monitor-agents-dashboard.md) ensures your AI application maintains quality in real-world conditions:
::: moniker-end

- **Operational metrics**: Regular measurement of key AI agent operational metrics
- **Continuous evaluation**: Quality and safety evaluation of production traffic at a sampled rate
- **Scheduled evaluation**: Scheduled quality and safety evaluation using test datasets to detect system drift
- **Scheduled red teaming**: Scheduled adversarial testing to probe for safety and security vulnerabilities
- **Azure Monitor alerts**: Notifications when outputs fail quality thresholds or produce harmful content

Integrated with Azure Monitor Application Insights, the Foundry Observability dashboard delivers real-time insights into performance, safety, and quality metrics, enabling rapid issue resolution and maintaining user trust.

## Evaluation cheat sheet

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

| Purpose | Process | Parameters, guidance, and samples |
| -----| -----| ----|
| How to set up tracing? | Configure distributed tracing | [Trace your application](../how-to/develop/trace-application.md) <br></br> [Trace with Agents SDK](../how-to/develop/trace-agents-sdk.md) |
| What are you evaluating for? | Identify or build relevant evaluators | [Built-in evaluators](built-in-evaluators.md) <br></br> [Custom evaluators](./evaluation-evaluators/custom-evaluators.md) <br></br> [Python SDK samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/ai/azure-ai-projects/samples/evaluations/README.md) <br></br> [C# SDK samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/ai/Azure.AI.Projects/tests/Samples/Agent/Sample_Agent_Functions.cs) |
| What data should you use? | Upload or generate relevant dataset | [Synthetic dataset generation](./concept-synthetic-data.md) <br></br> [Run AI red teaming in the cloud](../how-to/develop/run-ai-red-teaming-cloud.md) |
| How to run evaluations? | Run evaluation | [Agent evaluation runs](../how-to/develop/agent-evaluate-sdk.md) <br></br> [Remote cloud run](../how-to/develop/cloud-evaluation.md) <br></br> [Local run](../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md) |
| How did my model/app perform? | Analyze results | [View evaluation results](../how-to/evaluate-results.md) <br></br> [Cluster analysis](../how-to/evaluate-results.md#cluster-analysis) |
| How can I improve? | Make changes to model, app, or evaluators | If evaluation results didn't align to human feedback, adjust your evaluator. <br></br> If evaluation results aligned to human feedback but didn't meet quality/safety thresholds, apply targeted mitigations. Example: [Azure AI Content Safety](../ai-services/content-safety-overview.md) |
| How to configure VNET? | Set up virtual network isolation | [Virtual network support for evaluation](vnet-support.md) |

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="foundry"

| Purpose | Process | Parameters, guidance, and samples |
| -----| -----| ----|
| How to set up tracing? | Configure distributed tracing | [Trace your application](../how-to/develop/trace-application.md) <br></br> [Trace with Agents SDK](../how-to/develop/trace-agents-sdk.md) |
| What are you evaluating for? | Identify or build relevant evaluators | [Built-in evaluators](built-in-evaluators.md) <br></br> [Custom evaluators](./evaluation-evaluators/custom-evaluators.md) <br></br> [Python SDK samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/ai/azure-ai-projects/samples/evaluations/README.md) <br></br> [C# SDK samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/ai/Azure.AI.Projects/tests/Samples/Agent/Sample_Agent_Functions.cs) |
| What data should you use? | Upload or generate relevant dataset | [Synthetic dataset generation](../how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app.md#select-or-create-a-dataset) <br></br> [Run AI red teaming in the cloud](../how-to/develop/run-ai-red-teaming-cloud.md) |
| How to run evaluations? | Run evaluation | [Agent evaluation runs](../how-to/develop/agent-evaluate-sdk.md) <br></br> [Remote cloud run](../how-to/develop/cloud-evaluation.md) |
| How did my model/app perform? | Analyze results | [View evaluation results](../how-to/evaluate-results.md) <br></br> [Cluster analysis](../how-to/evaluate-results.md#cluster-analysis) |
| How can I improve? | Make changes to model, app, or evaluators | If evaluation results didn't align to human feedback, adjust your evaluator. <br></br> If evaluation results aligned to human feedback but didn't meet quality/safety thresholds, apply targeted mitigations. Example: [Azure AI Content Safety](../ai-services/content-safety-overview.md) |
| How to configure VNET? | Set up virtual network isolation | [Virtual network support for evaluation](vnet-support.md) |

::: moniker-end

## Region support

Currently certain AI-assisted evaluators are available only in the following regions:

| Region | Hate and unfairness, Sexual, Violent, Self-harm, Indirect attack, Code vulnerabilities, Ungrounded attributes | Groundedness Pro | Protected material |
|--|--|--|--|
| East US 2 | Supported | Supported | Supported |
| Sweden Central | Supported | Supported | N/A |
| US North Central | Supported | N/A | N/A |
| France Central | Supported | N/A | N/A |
| Switzerland West | Supported | N/A | N/A |

> [!NOTE]
> Red teaming agent is only available in regions where risk and safety evaluators are supported.

### Agent playground evaluation region support

| Region | Status |
|--|--|
| East US | Supported |
| East US 2 | Supported |
| West US | Supported |
| West US 2 | Supported |
| West US 3 | Supported |
| France Central | Supported |
| Norway East | Supported |
| Sweden Central | Supported |

### ACA excluded regions (all evaluation tests)

All evaluation tests are skipped in regions where Azure Container Apps (ACA) is unavailable:

- South Central US
- Central US
- Spain Central
- Southeast Asia
- Canada Central

### OpenAI grader excluded regions

The following tests are skipped in regions where OpenAI grader/custom code evaluator isn't supported:

- East US
- Canada East

## Rate limits

The following rate limits apply to evaluation runs:

| Limit | Value |
|--|--|
| Maximum size per row | 2 MB |
| Maximum rows per batch evaluation | 100,000 |

## Pricing

Observability features such as Risk and Safety Evaluations and Continuous Evaluations are billed based on consumption as listed in [our Azure pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/ai-foundry/).

## Related content

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

- [Built-in evaluators reference](built-in-evaluators.md)
- [Virtual network support for evaluation](vnet-support.md)
- [Evaluate with the Azure AI Evaluation SDK](../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md)
- [Evaluate generative AI apps by using Foundry](../how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app.md)
- [See evaluation results in the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-results.md)
- [Foundry Transparency Note](safety-evaluations-transparency-note.md)

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="foundry"

- [Built-in evaluators reference](built-in-evaluators.md)
- [Virtual network support for evaluation](vnet-support.md)
- [Foundry control plane](../default/control-plane/overview.md)
- [Evaluate generative AI apps by using Foundry](../how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app.md)
- [See evaluation results in the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-results.md)
- [Foundry Transparency Note](safety-evaluations-transparency-note.md)

::: moniker-end

Commit message:

Update observability.md: add prerequisites, region availability, rate limits, and pricing callout

articles/ai-foundry/concepts/observability.md, after:

---
title: Observability in Generative AI
titleSuffix: Microsoft Foundry
description: Learn how Microsoft Foundry enables safe, high-quality generative AI through systematic evaluation and observability tools.
monikerRange: 'foundry-classic || foundry'
ai-usage: ai-assisted
author: lgayhardt
ms.author: lagayhar
ms.reviewer: skohlmeier
ms.date: 01/16/2026
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.custom:
  - build-aifnd
  - build-2025
---

# Observability in generative AI

[!INCLUDE [version-banner](../includes/version-banner.md)]  

[!INCLUDE [feature-preview](../includes/feature-preview.md)]

The AI application lifecycle requires robust evaluation frameworks to ensure AI systems deliver accurate, relevant, and reliable outputs. Without rigorous assessment, AI systems risk generating responses that are inaccurate, inconsistent, poorly grounded, or potentially harmful. Observability enables teams to measure and improve both the quality and safety of AI outputs throughout the development lifecycle—from model selection through production monitoring.

[!INCLUDE [evaluation-preview](../includes/evaluation-preview.md)]

## Prerequisites

- A [Microsoft Foundry project](../how-to/create-projects.md) with a deployed model or agent.
- **Contributor** or **Owner** role on the Foundry project to configure evaluations.
- (Optional) An [Azure Monitor Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) resource for production monitoring and tracing. You can [create a new resource](/azure/azure-monitor/app/create-workspace-resource) or [attach an existing one](../how-to/develop/trace-application.md). Required to enable tracing.
- (Optional) The [Microsoft Foundry SDK](../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md) for running evaluations within your development environment.

## What is observability?

AI observability refers to the ability to monitor, understand, and troubleshoot AI systems throughout their lifecycle. Teams can trace and evaluate locally in their development environment, integrate automated quality gates into CI/CD pipelines (see [Evaluate with GitHub Actions](../how-to/develop/evaluation-github-action.md) and [Evaluate with Azure DevOps](../how-to/develop/evaluation-azure-devops.md)), and collect signals such as evaluation metrics, logs, traces, and model outputs to gain visibility into performance, quality, safety, and operational health.

## Core observability capabilities

Microsoft Foundry provides three core capabilities that work together to deliver comprehensive observability across the AI application lifecycle:

### Evaluation

Evaluators measure the quality, safety, and reliability of AI responses throughout development. Microsoft Foundry provides built-in evaluators for general-purpose quality metrics (coherence, fluency), RAG-specific metrics (groundedness, relevance), safety and security (hate/unfairness, violence, protected materials), and agent-specific metrics (tool call accuracy, task completion). Teams can also build custom evaluators tailored to their domain-specific requirements.

For a complete list of built-in evaluators, see [Built-in evaluators reference](built-in-evaluators.md).

### Monitoring

Production monitoring ensures your deployed AI applications maintain quality and performance in real-world conditions. Integrated with Azure Monitor Application Insights, Microsoft Foundry delivers real-time dashboards tracking operational metrics, token consumption, latency, error rates, and quality scores. Teams can set up alerts when outputs fail quality thresholds or produce harmful content, enabling rapid issue resolution.

For details on setting up production monitoring, see [Monitor agents dashboard](../default/agents/how-to/how-to-monitor-agents-dashboard.md).

### Tracing

Distributed tracing captures the execution flow of AI applications, providing visibility into LLM calls, tool invocations, agent decisions, and inter-service dependencies. Built on OpenTelemetry standards and integrated with Application Insights, tracing enables debugging complex agent behaviors, identifying performance bottlenecks, and understanding multi-step reasoning chains. Microsoft Foundry supports tracing for popular frameworks including LangChain, Semantic Kernel, and the OpenAI Agents SDK.

For guidance on implementing tracing, see [Trace your application](../how-to/develop/trace-application.md) and [Trace with Agents SDK](../how-to/develop/trace-agents-sdk.md).

## What are evaluators?

Evaluators are specialized tools that measure the quality, safety, and reliability of AI responses throughout the development lifecycle.

For a complete list of built-in evaluators, see [Built-in evaluators reference](built-in-evaluators.md).

Evaluators integrate into each stage of the AI lifecycle to ensure reliability, safety, and effectiveness.

:::image type="content" source="../media/evaluations/lifecycle.png" alt-text="Diagram of AI application lifecycle, showing model selection, building an AI application, and operationalizing." lightbox="../media/evaluations/lifecycle.png":::

## The three stages of AI application lifecycle evaluation

### Base model selection

Select the right foundation model by comparing quality, task performance, ethical considerations, and safety profiles across different models.

**Tools available**: [Microsoft Foundry benchmark](model-benchmarks.md) for comparing models on public datasets or your own data, and the Azure AI Evaluation SDK for [testing specific model endpoints](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azureai-samples/blob/main/scenarios/evaluate/Supported_Evaluation_Targets/Evaluate_Base_Model_Endpoint/Evaluate_Base_Model_Endpoint.ipynb).

### Pre-production evaluation

Before deployment, thorough testing ensures your AI agent or application is production-ready. This stage validates performance through evaluation datasets, identifies edge cases, assesses robustness, and measures key metrics including task adherence, groundedness, relevance, and safety. For building production-ready agents with multi-turn conversations, tool calling, and state management, see [Foundry Agent Service](../default/agents/overview.md).

:::image type="content" source="../media/evaluations/evaluation-models-diagram.png" alt-text="Diagram of Pre-production evaluation for models and applications with the six steps." lightbox="../media/evaluations/evaluation-models-diagram.png ":::

**Evaluation tools and approaches:**

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

- **Bring your own data**: Evaluate AI agents and applications using your own data with quality, safety, or [custom evaluators](./evaluation-evaluators/custom-evaluators.md). Use Foundry's evaluation wizard or [Azure AI Evaluation SDK](../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md) and [view results in the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-results.md).

- **AI red teaming agent**: The [AI red teaming agent](../how-to/develop/run-scans-ai-red-teaming-agent.md) simulates complex adversarial attacks using Microsoft's PyRIT framework to identify safety and security vulnerabilities. Best used with human-in-the-loop processes.

Alternatively, you can also use [the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app.md) for testing your generative AI applications.

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="foundry"

- **Bring your own data**: Evaluate AI applications using your own data with quality, safety, or [custom evaluators](./evaluation-evaluators/custom-evaluators.md). Use Foundry's evaluation wizard or [Foundry SDK](../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md) and [view results in the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-results.md).

- **AI red teaming agent**: The [AI red teaming agent](../how-to/develop/run-scans-ai-red-teaming-agent.md) simulates complex attacks using Microsoft's PyRIT framework to identify safety and security vulnerabilities before deployment. Best used with human-in-the-loop processes.

You can also use [the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app.md) for testing generative AI applications.

::: moniker-end

### Post-production monitoring

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"
After deployment, continuous monitoring ensures your AI application maintains quality in real-world conditions:
::: moniker-end
::: moniker range="foundry"
After deployment, [continuous monitoring](../default/agents/how-to/how-to-monitor-agents-dashboard.md) ensures your AI application maintains quality in real-world conditions:
::: moniker-end

- **Operational metrics**: Regular measurement of key AI agent operational metrics
- **Continuous evaluation**: Quality and safety evaluation of production traffic at a sampled rate
- **Scheduled evaluation**: Scheduled quality and safety evaluation using test datasets to detect system drift
- **Scheduled red teaming**: Scheduled adversarial testing to probe for safety and security vulnerabilities
- **Azure Monitor alerts**: Notifications when outputs fail quality thresholds or produce harmful content

Integrated with Azure Monitor Application Insights, the Foundry Observability dashboard delivers real-time insights into performance, safety, and quality metrics, enabling rapid issue resolution and maintaining user trust.

## Evaluation cheat sheet

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

| Purpose | Process | Parameters, guidance, and samples |
| -----| -----| ----|
| How to set up tracing? | Configure distributed tracing | [Trace your application](../how-to/develop/trace-application.md) <br></br> [Trace with Agents SDK](../how-to/develop/trace-agents-sdk.md) |
| What are you evaluating for? | Identify or build relevant evaluators | [Built-in evaluators](built-in-evaluators.md) <br></br> [Custom evaluators](./evaluation-evaluators/custom-evaluators.md) <br></br> [Python SDK samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/ai/azure-ai-projects/samples/evaluations/README.md) <br></br> [C# SDK samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/ai/Azure.AI.Projects/tests/Samples/Agent/Sample_Agent_Functions.cs) |
| What data should you use? | Upload or generate relevant dataset | [Synthetic dataset generation](./concept-synthetic-data.md) <br></br> [Run AI red teaming in the cloud](../how-to/develop/run-ai-red-teaming-cloud.md) |
| How to run evaluations? | Run evaluation | [Agent evaluation runs](../how-to/develop/agent-evaluate-sdk.md) <br></br> [Remote cloud run](../how-to/develop/cloud-evaluation.md) <br></br> [Local run](../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md) |
| How did my model/app perform? | Analyze results | [View evaluation results](../how-to/evaluate-results.md) <br></br> [Cluster analysis](../how-to/evaluate-results.md#cluster-analysis) |
| How can I improve? | Make changes to model, app, or evaluators | If evaluation results didn't align to human feedback, adjust your evaluator. <br></br> If evaluation results aligned to human feedback but didn't meet quality/safety thresholds, apply targeted mitigations. Example: [Azure AI Content Safety](../ai-services/content-safety-overview.md) |
| How to configure VNET? | Set up virtual network isolation | [Virtual network support for evaluation](vnet-support.md) |

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="foundry"

| Purpose | Process | Parameters, guidance, and samples |
| -----| -----| ----|
| How to set up tracing? | Configure distributed tracing | [Trace your application](../how-to/develop/trace-application.md) <br></br> [Trace with Agents SDK](../how-to/develop/trace-agents-sdk.md) |
| What are you evaluating for? | Identify or build relevant evaluators | [Built-in evaluators](built-in-evaluators.md) <br></br> [Custom evaluators](./evaluation-evaluators/custom-evaluators.md) <br></br> [Python SDK samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/ai/azure-ai-projects/samples/evaluations/README.md) <br></br> [C# SDK samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/ai/Azure.AI.Projects/tests/Samples/Agent/Sample_Agent_Functions.cs) |
| What data should you use? | Upload or generate relevant dataset | [Synthetic dataset generation](../how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app.md#select-or-create-a-dataset) <br></br> [Run AI red teaming in the cloud](../how-to/develop/run-ai-red-teaming-cloud.md) |
| How to run evaluations? | Run evaluation | [Agent evaluation runs](../how-to/develop/agent-evaluate-sdk.md) <br></br> [Remote cloud run](../how-to/develop/cloud-evaluation.md) |
| How did my model/app perform? | Analyze results | [View evaluation results](../how-to/evaluate-results.md) <br></br> [Cluster analysis](../how-to/evaluate-results.md#cluster-analysis) |
| How can I improve? | Make changes to model, app, or evaluators | If evaluation results didn't align to human feedback, adjust your evaluator. <br></br> If evaluation results aligned to human feedback but didn't meet quality/safety thresholds, apply targeted mitigations. Example: [Azure AI Content Safety](../ai-services/content-safety-overview.md) |
| How to configure VNET? | Set up virtual network isolation | [Virtual network support for evaluation](vnet-support.md) |

::: moniker-end

## Region support

Currently certain AI-assisted evaluators are available only in the following regions:

| Region | Hate and unfairness, Sexual, Violent, Self-harm, Indirect attack, Code vulnerabilities, Ungrounded attributes | Groundedness Pro | Protected material |
|--|--|--|--|
| East US 2 | Supported | Supported | Supported |
| Sweden Central | Supported | Supported | N/A |
| US North Central | Supported | N/A | N/A |
| France Central | Supported | N/A | N/A |
| Switzerland West | Supported | N/A | N/A |

> [!NOTE]
> Red teaming agent is only available in regions where risk and safety evaluators are supported.

### Agent playground evaluation region support

| Region | Status |
|--|--|
| East US | Supported |
| East US 2 | Supported |
| West US | Supported |
| West US 2 | Supported |
| West US 3 | Supported |
| France Central | Supported |
| Norway East | Supported |
| Sweden Central | Supported |

### Batch evaluation excluded regions

Batch evaluations aren't supported in the following regions:

- Canada Central
- Qatar Central
- South Central US
- Southeast Asia
- Spain Central

### OpenAI grader excluded regions

The following regions don't support OpenAI grader/custom code evaluator:

- Canada East
- Central India
- East Asia
- East US
- North Europe
- South India

## Rate limits

The following rate limits apply to evaluation runs:

| Limit | Value |
|--|--|
| Maximum size per row | 2 MB |
| Maximum rows per batch evaluation | 100,000 |

Evaluation run creations are rate-limited at the tenant, subscription, and project levels. If you exceed the limit:

- The response includes a `retry-after` header with the wait time.
- The response body contains rate limit details.

Use exponential backoff when retrying failed requests.

## Pricing

Observability features such as Risk and Safety Evaluations and Continuous Evaluations are billed based on consumption as listed in [our Azure pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/ai-foundry/).

> [!NOTE]
> Playground evaluations are enabled by default for all Foundry projects and are included in consumption-based billing. To turn off playground evaluations, unselect metrics in the upper right of the agents playground.

## Related content

::: moniker range="foundry-classic"

- [Built-in evaluators reference](built-in-evaluators.md)
- [Virtual network support for evaluation](vnet-support.md)
- [Evaluate with the Azure AI Evaluation SDK](../how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk.md)
- [Evaluate generative AI apps by using Foundry](../how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app.md)
- [See evaluation results in the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-results.md)
- [Foundry Transparency Note](safety-evaluations-transparency-note.md)

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="foundry"

- [Built-in evaluators reference](built-in-evaluators.md)
- [Virtual network support for evaluation](vnet-support.md)
- [Foundry control plane](../default/control-plane/overview.md)
- [Evaluate generative AI apps by using Foundry](../how-to/evaluate-generative-ai-app.md)
- [See evaluation results in the Foundry portal](../how-to/evaluate-results.md)
- [Foundry Transparency Note](safety-evaluations-transparency-note.md)

::: moniker-end
