articles/ai-services/speech-service/includes/language-support/stt.md, before:

---
author: eric-urban
ms.service: azure-ai-speech
ms.date: 02/23/2023
ms.topic: include
ms.author: eur
---

| Locale (BCP-47) | Language | Custom Speech support |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| `af-ZA` | Afrikaans (South Africa) | Plain text |
| `am-ET` | Amharic (Ethiopia) | Plain text |
| `ar-AE` | Arabic (United Arab Emirates) | Plain text |
| `ar-BH` | Arabic (Bahrain) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-DZ` | Arabic (Algeria) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-EG` | Arabic (Egypt) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-IL` | Arabic (Israel) | Plain text |
| `ar-IQ` | Arabic (Iraq) | Plain text |
| `ar-JO` | Arabic (Jordan) | Plain text |
| `ar-KW` | Arabic (Kuwait) | Plain text |
| `ar-LB` | Arabic (Lebanon) | Plain text |
| `ar-LY` | Arabic (Libya) | Plain text |
| `ar-MA` | Arabic (Morocco) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-OM` | Arabic (Oman) | Plain text |
| `ar-PS` | Arabic (Palestinian Authority) | Plain text |
| `ar-QA` | Arabic (Qatar) | Plain text |
| `ar-SA` | Arabic (Saudi Arabia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-SY` | Arabic (Syria) | Plain text |
| `ar-TN` | Arabic (Tunisia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-YE` | Arabic (Yemen) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `az-AZ` | Azerbaijani (Latin, Azerbaijan) | Plain text |
| `bg-BG` | Bulgarian (Bulgaria) | Plain text |
| `bn-IN` | Bengali (India) | Plain text |
| `bs-BA` | Bosnian (Bosnia and Herzegovina) | Plain text |
| `ca-ES` | Catalan | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `cs-CZ` | Czech (Czechia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `cy-GB` | Welsh (United Kingdom) | Plain text |
| `da-DK` | Danish (Denmark) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `de-AT` | German (Austria) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `de-CH` | German (Switzerland) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `de-DE` | German (Germany) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `el-GR` | Greek (Greece) | Plain text |
| `en-AU` | English (Australia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `en-CA` | English (Canada) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `en-GB` | English (United Kingdom) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `en-GH` | English (Ghana) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-HK` | English (Hong Kong SAR) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-IE` | English (Ireland) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-IN` | English (India) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `en-KE` | English (Kenya) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-NG` | English (Nigeria) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-NZ` | English (New Zealand) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-PH` | English (Philippines) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-SG` | English (Singapore) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-TZ` | English (Tanzania) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-US` | English (United States) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `en-ZA` | English (South Africa) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-AR` | Spanish (Argentina) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-BO` | Spanish (Bolivia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-CL` | Spanish (Chile) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-CO` | Spanish (Colombia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-CR` | Spanish (Costa Rica) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-CU` | Spanish (Cuba) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-DO` | Spanish (Dominican Republic) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-EC` | Spanish (Ecuador) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-ES` | Spanish (Spain) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `es-GQ` | Spanish (Equatorial Guinea) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text |
| `es-GT` | Spanish (Guatemala) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-HN` | Spanish (Honduras) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-MX` | Spanish (Mexico) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `es-NI` | Spanish (Nicaragua) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-PA` | Spanish (Panama) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-PE` | Spanish (Peru) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-PR` | Spanish (Puerto Rico) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-PY` | Spanish (Paraguay) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-SV` | Spanish (El Salvador) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-US` | Spanish (United States) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-UY` | Spanish (Uruguay) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-VE` | Spanish (Venezuela) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `et-EE` | Estonian (Estonia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `eu-ES` | Basque | Plain text |
| `fa-IR` | Persian (Iran) | Plain text |
| `fi-FI` | Finnish (Finland) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `fil-PH` | Filipino (Philippines) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `fr-BE` | French (Belgium) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `fr-CA` | French (Canada) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `fr-CH` | French (Switzerland) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `fr-FR` | French (France) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `ga-IE` | Irish (Ireland) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `gl-ES` | Galician | Plain text |
| `gu-IN` | Gujarati (India) | Plain text |
| `he-IL` | Hebrew (Israel) | Plain text |
| `hi-IN` | Hindi (India) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `hr-HR` | Croatian (Croatia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `hu-HU` | Hungarian (Hungary) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `hy-AM` | Armenian (Armenia) | Plain text |
| `id-ID` | Indonesian (Indonesia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `is-IS` | Icelandic (Iceland) | Plain text |
| `it-CH` | Italian (Switzerland) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `it-IT` | Italian (Italy) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `ja-JP` | Japanese (Japan) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `jv-ID` | Javanese (Latin, Indonesia) | Plain text |
| `ka-GE` | Georgian (Georgia) | Plain text |
| `kk-KZ` | Kazakh (Kazakhstan) | Plain text |
| `km-KH` | Khmer (Cambodia) | Plain text |
| `kn-IN` | Kannada (India) | Plain text |
| `ko-KR` | Korean (Korea) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `lo-LA` | Lao (Laos) | Plain text |
| `lt-LT` | Lithuanian (Lithuania) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `lv-LV` | Latvian (Latvia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `mk-MK` | Macedonian (North Macedonia) | Plain text |
| `ml-IN` | Malayalam (India) | Plain text |
| `mn-MN` | Mongolian (Mongolia) | Plain text |
| `mr-IN` | Marathi (India) | Plain text |
| `ms-MY` | Malay (Malaysia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `mt-MT` | Maltese (Malta) | Plain text |
| `my-MM` | Burmese (Myanmar) | Plain text |
| `nb-NO` | Norwegian Bokmål (Norway) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ne-NP` | Nepali (Nepal) | Plain text |
| `nl-BE` | Dutch (Belgium) | Plain text |
| `nl-NL` | Dutch (Netherlands) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `pa-IN` | Punjabi (India) | Audio + human-labeled transcript |
| `pl-PL` | Polish (Poland) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `ps-AF` | Pashto (Afghanistan) | Plain text |
| `pt-BR` | Portuguese (Brazil) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `pt-PT` | Portuguese (Portugal) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `ro-RO` | Romanian (Romania) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `ru-RU` | Russian (Russia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `si-LK` | Sinhala (Sri Lanka) | Plain text |
| `sk-SK` | Slovak (Slovakia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `sl-SI` | Slovenian (Slovenia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `so-SO` | Somali (Somalia) | Plain text |
| `sq-AL` | Albanian (Albania) | Plain text |
| `sr-RS` | Serbian (Cyrillic, Serbia) | Plain text |
| `sv-SE` | Swedish (Sweden) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `sw-KE` | Swahili (Kenya) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `sw-TZ` | Swahili (Tanzania) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ta-IN` | Tamil (India) | Plain text |
| `te-IN` | Telugu (India) | Plain text |
| `th-TH` | Thai (Thailand) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `tr-TR` | Turkish (Türkiye) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text |
| `uk-UA` | Ukrainian (Ukraine) | Plain text |
| `ur-IN` | Urdu (India) | Audio + human-labeled transcript |
| `uz-UZ` | Uzbek (Latin, Uzbekistan) | Plain text |
| `vi-VN` | Vietnamese (Vietnam) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `wuu-CN` | Chinese (Wu, Simplified) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `yue-CN` | Chinese (Cantonese, Simplified) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `zh-CN` | Chinese (Mandarin, Simplified) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `zh-CN-shandong` | Chinese (Jilu Mandarin, Simplified) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `zh-CN-sichuan` | Chinese (Southwestern Mandarin, Simplified) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `zh-HK` | Chinese (Cantonese, Traditional) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `zh-TW` | Chinese (Taiwanese Mandarin, Traditional) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `zu-ZA` | Zulu (South Africa) | Plain text |

Commit message:

Update stt.md for adding bilingual mode mark
Added the bilingual model mark for es-US and fr-CA. also added one note behind the table.

articles/ai-services/speech-service/includes/language-support/stt.md, after:

---
author: eric-urban
ms.service: azure-ai-speech
ms.date: 02/23/2023
ms.topic: include
ms.author: eur
---

| Locale (BCP-47) | Language | Custom Speech support |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| `af-ZA` | Afrikaans (South Africa) | Plain text |
| `am-ET` | Amharic (Ethiopia) | Plain text |
| `ar-AE` | Arabic (United Arab Emirates) | Plain text |
| `ar-BH` | Arabic (Bahrain) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-DZ` | Arabic (Algeria) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-EG` | Arabic (Egypt) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-IL` | Arabic (Israel) | Plain text |
| `ar-IQ` | Arabic (Iraq) | Plain text |
| `ar-JO` | Arabic (Jordan) | Plain text |
| `ar-KW` | Arabic (Kuwait) | Plain text |
| `ar-LB` | Arabic (Lebanon) | Plain text |
| `ar-LY` | Arabic (Libya) | Plain text |
| `ar-MA` | Arabic (Morocco) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-OM` | Arabic (Oman) | Plain text |
| `ar-PS` | Arabic (Palestinian Authority) | Plain text |
| `ar-QA` | Arabic (Qatar) | Plain text |
| `ar-SA` | Arabic (Saudi Arabia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-SY` | Arabic (Syria) | Plain text |
| `ar-TN` | Arabic (Tunisia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ar-YE` | Arabic (Yemen) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `az-AZ` | Azerbaijani (Latin, Azerbaijan) | Plain text |
| `bg-BG` | Bulgarian (Bulgaria) | Plain text |
| `bn-IN` | Bengali (India) | Plain text |
| `bs-BA` | Bosnian (Bosnia and Herzegovina) | Plain text |
| `ca-ES` | Catalan | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `cs-CZ` | Czech (Czechia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `cy-GB` | Welsh (United Kingdom) | Plain text |
| `da-DK` | Danish (Denmark) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `de-AT` | German (Austria) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `de-CH` | German (Switzerland) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `de-DE` | German (Germany) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `el-GR` | Greek (Greece) | Plain text |
| `en-AU` | English (Australia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `en-CA` | English (Canada) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `en-GB` | English (United Kingdom) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `en-GH` | English (Ghana) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-HK` | English (Hong Kong SAR) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-IE` | English (Ireland) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-IN` | English (India) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `en-KE` | English (Kenya) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-NG` | English (Nigeria) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-NZ` | English (New Zealand) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-PH` | English (Philippines) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-SG` | English (Singapore) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-TZ` | English (Tanzania) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `en-US` | English (United States) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `en-ZA` | English (South Africa) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Audio<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-AR` | Spanish (Argentina) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-BO` | Spanish (Bolivia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-CL` | Spanish (Chile) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-CO` | Spanish (Colombia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-CR` | Spanish (Costa Rica) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-CU` | Spanish (Cuba) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-DO` | Spanish (Dominican Republic) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-EC` | Spanish (Ecuador) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-ES` | Spanish (Spain) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `es-GQ` | Spanish (Equatorial Guinea) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text |
| `es-GT` | Spanish (Guatemala) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-HN` | Spanish (Honduras) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-MX` | Spanish (Mexico) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `es-NI` | Spanish (Nicaragua) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-PA` | Spanish (Panama) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-PE` | Spanish (Peru) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-PR` | Spanish (Puerto Rico) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-PY` | Spanish (Paraguay) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-SV` | Spanish (El Salvador) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-US`<sup> 1</sup> | Spanish (United States) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-UY` | Spanish (Uruguay) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `es-VE` | Spanish (Venezuela) | Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `et-EE` | Estonian (Estonia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `eu-ES` | Basque | Plain text |
| `fa-IR` | Persian (Iran) | Plain text |
| `fi-FI` | Finnish (Finland) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `fil-PH` | Filipino (Philippines) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `fr-BE` | French (Belgium) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `fr-CA`<sup> 2</sup> | French (Canada) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `fr-CH` | French (Switzerland) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `fr-FR` | French (France) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `ga-IE` | Irish (Ireland) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `gl-ES` | Galician | Plain text |
| `gu-IN` | Gujarati (India) | Plain text |
| `he-IL` | Hebrew (Israel) | Plain text |
| `hi-IN` | Hindi (India) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `hr-HR` | Croatian (Croatia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `hu-HU` | Hungarian (Hungary) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `hy-AM` | Armenian (Armenia) | Plain text |
| `id-ID` | Indonesian (Indonesia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `is-IS` | Icelandic (Iceland) | Plain text |
| `it-CH` | Italian (Switzerland) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `it-IT` | Italian (Italy) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `ja-JP` | Japanese (Japan) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `jv-ID` | Javanese (Latin, Indonesia) | Plain text |
| `ka-GE` | Georgian (Georgia) | Plain text |
| `kk-KZ` | Kazakh (Kazakhstan) | Plain text |
| `km-KH` | Khmer (Cambodia) | Plain text |
| `kn-IN` | Kannada (India) | Plain text |
| `ko-KR` | Korean (Korea) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `lo-LA` | Lao (Laos) | Plain text |
| `lt-LT` | Lithuanian (Lithuania) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `lv-LV` | Latvian (Latvia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `mk-MK` | Macedonian (North Macedonia) | Plain text |
| `ml-IN` | Malayalam (India) | Plain text |
| `mn-MN` | Mongolian (Mongolia) | Plain text |
| `mr-IN` | Marathi (India) | Plain text |
| `ms-MY` | Malay (Malaysia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `mt-MT` | Maltese (Malta) | Plain text |
| `my-MM` | Burmese (Myanmar) | Plain text |
| `nb-NO` | Norwegian Bokmål (Norway) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ne-NP` | Nepali (Nepal) | Plain text |
| `nl-BE` | Dutch (Belgium) | Plain text |
| `nl-NL` | Dutch (Netherlands) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `pa-IN` | Punjabi (India) | Audio + human-labeled transcript |
| `pl-PL` | Polish (Poland) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `ps-AF` | Pashto (Afghanistan) | Plain text |
| `pt-BR` | Portuguese (Brazil) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Pronunciation<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `pt-PT` | Portuguese (Portugal) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `ro-RO` | Romanian (Romania) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `ru-RU` | Russian (Russia) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `si-LK` | Sinhala (Sri Lanka) | Plain text |
| `sk-SK` | Slovak (Slovakia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `sl-SI` | Slovenian (Slovenia) | Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `so-SO` | Somali (Somalia) | Plain text |
| `sq-AL` | Albanian (Albania) | Plain text |
| `sr-RS` | Serbian (Cyrillic, Serbia) | Plain text |
| `sv-SE` | Swedish (Sweden) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Pronunciation |
| `sw-KE` | Swahili (Kenya) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `sw-TZ` | Swahili (Tanzania) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `ta-IN` | Tamil (India) | Plain text |
| `te-IN` | Telugu (India) | Plain text |
| `th-TH` | Thai (Thailand) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `tr-TR` | Turkish (Türkiye) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text |
| `uk-UA` | Ukrainian (Ukraine) | Plain text |
| `ur-IN` | Urdu (India) | Audio + human-labeled transcript |
| `uz-UZ` | Uzbek (Latin, Uzbekistan) | Plain text |
| `vi-VN` | Vietnamese (Vietnam) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `wuu-CN` | Chinese (Wu, Simplified) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `yue-CN` | Chinese (Cantonese, Simplified) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `zh-CN` | Chinese (Mandarin, Simplified) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text<br/><br/>Structured text<br/><br/>Phrase list |
| `zh-CN-shandong` | Chinese (Jilu Mandarin, Simplified) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `zh-CN-sichuan` | Chinese (Southwestern Mandarin, Simplified) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `zh-HK` | Chinese (Cantonese, Traditional) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `zh-TW` | Chinese (Taiwanese Mandarin, Traditional) | Audio + human-labeled transcript<br/><br/>Plain text |
| `zu-ZA` | Zulu (South Africa) | Plain text |

<sup>1</sup> It is a bilingual model with support for the English language as well.
