---
title: Content Credentials in Azure OpenAI
titleSuffix: Azure OpenAI
description: Learn about Content credentials, which let you verify that an image was generated by an AI model.
author: PatrickFarley
ms.author: pafarley
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.subservice: azure-ai-foundry-openai
ms.topic: concept-article 
ms.date: 01/30/2026
manager: nitinme
---

# Content Credentials

[!INCLUDE [classic-banner](../../includes/classic-banner.md)]

With the improved quality of content from generative AI models, there is an increased need for more transparency about the origin of AI-generated content. All AI-generated images from Azure OpenAI in Microsoft Foundry Models include Content Credentials, a tamper-evident way to disclose the origin and history of content. Content Credentials are based on an open technical specification from the [Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA)](https://www.c2pa.org), a Joint Development Foundation project. 

## Content credentials overview 

Content credentials in the Azure OpenAI provide customers with information about the origin of an image generated by the image generation models. This information is represented by a manifest attached to the image. The manifest is cryptographically signed by a certificate that traces back to Azure OpenAI.

The manifest contains several key pieces of information: 

| Field name | Field content |
| ---| ---|
| `"description"` | This field has a value of `"AI Generated Image"` for all generated images, attesting to the AI-generated nature of the image. |
| `"softwareAgent"` | This field has a value of `"Azure OpenAI DALL-E"` or `"Azure OpenAI ImageGen"` for all images generated by DALL-E series models or GPT-image-1 series models in Azure OpenAI. |
|`"when"` |The timestamp of when the content credentials were created. | 


Content credentials in the Azure OpenAI can help people understand when visual content is AI-generated. For more information on how to responsibly build solutions with Azure OpenAI image-generation models, visit the [Azure OpenAI transparency note](/azure/ai-foundry/responsible-ai/openai/transparency-note?tabs=text).

## Use content credentials in your solution

Customers may use content credentials by:
- Ensuring that their AI-generated images contain Content Credentials.
    No additional setup is necessary. Content Credentials are automatically applied to all generated images from DALL·E and GPT-image-1 series models in Azure OpenAI. 
- Verifying that an image has Content Credentials.
    There are two recommended ways today to check the credential of an image generated by Azure OpenAI models:

    - **Content Credentials Verify webpage (contentcredentials.org/verify)**: This is a tool that allows users to inspect the Content Credentials of a piece of content. If an image was generated by an Azure OpenAI image generation model, the tool will display that its Content Credentials were issued by Microsoft Corporation alongside the date and time of issuance.
       :::image type="content" source="../media/encryption/credential-check.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the content credential verification website.":::
    
       This page shows that an image generated by Azure OpenAI DALL-E has Content Credentials issued by Microsoft.
        
    - **Content Authenticity Initiative (CAI) open-source tools**: The CAI provides multiple open-source tools that validate and display C2PA Content Credentials. Find the tool right for your application and [get started here](https://opensource.contentauthenticity.org/).
    