---
title: Include file
description: Include file
author: mrbullwinkle
ms.reviewer: sgilley
ms.author: mbullwin
ms.service: azure-ai-foundry
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 03/20/2026
ms.custom: include
---

## System performance

In many AI systems, performance is often defined in relation to accuracy—that is, how often the AI system offers a correct prediction or output. With large-scale natural language models and vision models, two different users might look at the same output and have different opinions of how useful or relevant it's, which means that performance for these systems must be defined more flexibly. Here, we broadly consider performance to mean that the application performs as you and your users expect, including not generating harmful outputs.

Azure OpenAI service can support a wide range of applications like search, classification, code generation, image generation, and image understanding, each with different performance metrics and mitigation strategies. There are several steps you can take to mitigate some of the concerns listed under "Limitations" and to improve performance. Other important mitigation techniques are outlined in the section [Evaluating and integrating Azure OpenAI for your use](#evaluating-and-integrating-azure-openai-natural-language-and-vision-models-for-your-use).

### Best practices for improving system performance

#### [Text, code, and fine-tuned models](#tab/text)

- **Show and tell when designing prompts.** With natural language models and speech models, make it clear to the model what kind of outputs you expect through instructions, examples, or a combination of the two. If you want the model to rank a list of items in alphabetical order or to classify a paragraph by sentiment, show the model that is what you want.
- **Keep your application on topic.**  Carefully structure prompts and image inputs to reduce the chance of producing undesired content, even if a user tries to use it for this purpose. For instance, you might indicate in your prompt that a chatbot only engages in conversations about mathematics and otherwise responds "I'm sorry. I'm afraid I can't answer that." Adding adjectives like "polite" and examples in your desired tone to your prompt can also help steer outputs. 
- **Provide quality data.**  With text and code models, if you are trying to build a classifier or get the model to follow a pattern, make sure that there are enough examples. Be sure to proofread your examples—the model is usually capable of processing basic spelling mistakes and giving you a response, but it also might assume errors are intentional which could affect the response. Providing quality data also includes giving your model reliable data to draw responses from in chat and question answering systems.
- **Provide trusted data.** Retrieving or uploading untrusted data into your systems could compromise the security of your systems or applications. To mitigate these risks in your applicable applications (including applications using the Assistants API), we recommend logging and monitoring LLM interactions (inputs/outputs) to detect and analyze potential prompt injections, clearly delineating user input to minimize risk of prompt injection, restricting the LLM's access to sensitive resources, limiting its capabilities to the minimum required, and isolating it from critical systems and resources. Learn about additional mitigation approaches in [Security guidance for Large Language Models | Microsoft Learn.](/ai/playbook/technology-guidance/generative-ai/mlops-in-openai/security/security-recommend)
- **Configure parameters to improve accuracy or groundedness of responses**. Augmenting prompts with data retrieved from trusted sources – such as by using the Azure OpenAI "on your data" feature – can reduce, but not completely eliminate, the likelihood of generating inaccurate responses or false information. Steps you can take to further improve the accuracy of responses include carefully selecting the trusted and relevant data source and configuring custom parameters such as “strictness”, “limit responses to data content” and “number of retrieved documents to be considered” as appropriate to your use cases or scenarios. Learn more about configuring these settings for [Azure OpenAI on Your Data](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/concepts/use-your-data). 
- **Limit the length, structure, and rate of inputs and outputs.**  Restricting the length or structure of inputs and outputs can increase the likelihood that the application will stay on task and mitigate, at least in part, any potentially unfair, unreliable, or offensive behavior. Other options to reduce the risk of misuse include (i) restricting the source of inputs (for example, limiting inputs to a particular domain or to authenticated users rather than being open to anyone on the internet) and (ii) implementing usage rate limits. 
- **Encourage human review of outputs prior to publication or dissemination.** With generative AI, there is potential for generating content that might be offensive or not related to the task at hand, even with mitigations in place. To ensure that the generated output meets the task of the user, consider building ways to remind users to review their outputs for quality prior to sharing widely. This practice can reduce many different harms, including offensive material, disinformation, and more. 
- **Implement additional scenario-specific mitigations.**  Refer to the mitigations outlined in [Evaluating and integrating Azure OpenAI for your use](#evaluating-and-integrating-azure-openai-natural-language-and-vision-models-for-your-use) including content moderation strategies. These recommendations do not represent every mitigation required for your application. Newer models such as GPT-4o and reasoning models may provide responses in sensitive scenarios and are more likely to attempt to reduce potentially harmful outputs in their responses rather than refuse to respond altogether. It's important to understand this behavior when evaluating and integrating content moderation for your use case; adjustments to filtering severity may be needed depending on your use case.
- **Avoid triggering mandatory safeguards.** Azure Direct Models may have safeguards to prevent security exploits including output of raw CoT and biosecurity content. Use of a model in a manner that creates a security exploit or evades or attempts to evade a protection on the model, including by circumventing these safeguards, violates the Acceptable Use Policy for Online Services and may result in suspension. For greater detail on best practices, visit the [OpenAI o1 System Card](https://cdn.openai.com/o1-system-card-20241205.pdf), [o3-mini System Card](https://openai.com/index/o3-mini-system-card/), [o3/o4-mini System Card](https://openai.com/index/o3-o4-mini-system-card/), and [GPT-5 System Card](https://openai.com/index/gpt-5-system-card/).

#### Best practices and recommendations for fine tuning

To mitigate the risks and limitations of fine-tuning models on Azure OpenAI, we recommend customers to follow some best practices and guidelines, such as: 
- **Data selection and preprocessing**: Customers should carefully select and pre-process their data to ensure that it's relevant, diverse, and balanced for the intended task and domain. Customers should also remove or anonymize any sensitive or personal information from the data, such as names, addresses, or email addresses, to protect the privacy and security of the data subjects. Customers should also check and correct any errors or inconsistencies in the data, such as spelling, grammar, or formatting, to improve the data quality and readability. 
- **Include a system message in your training data** for chat-completion formatted models, to steer your responses, and use that same system message when using your fine-tuned model for inferencing. Leaving the system message blank tends to produce low-accuracy fine-tuned models, and forgetting to include the same system message when inferencing may result in the fine-tuned model reverting to the behavior of the base model. 
- **Model evaluation and testing: Customers should evaluate and test the fine-tuned model's performance** and robustness on a variety of inputs and scenarios and compare it with the original model and other baselines. Customers should also use appropriate metrics and criteria to measure the model's accuracy, reliability, and fairness, and to identify any potential errors or biases in the model's outputs and behavior.  
- **Model documentation and communication**: Customers should document and communicate the model's purpose, scope, limitations, and assumptions, and provide clear and accurate information and guidance to the end-users of the model. 

#### [Vision models](#tab/image)

- **Keep your application on topic.** With image generation models, you might indicate in your prompt or image input that your application generates only conceptual images. It might otherwise generate a pop-up notification that explains that the application is not for photorealistic use or to portray reality. Consider nudging users toward acceptable queries and image inputs, either by listing such examples up front or by offering them as suggestions upon receiving an off-topic request. Consider training a classifier to determine whether an input (prompt or image) is on topic or off topic.
- **Configure parameters to improve accuracy or groundedness of responses**. Augmenting prompts with data retrieved from trusted sources – such as by using the Azure OpenAI "on your data" feature – can reduce, but not completely eliminate, the likelihood of generating inaccurate responses or false information. Steps you can take to further improve the accuracy of responses include carefully selecting the trusted and relevant data source and configuring custom parameters such as “strictness”, “limit responses to data content” and “number of retrieved documents to be considered” as appropriate to your use cases or scenarios. Learn more about configuring these settings for [Azure OpenAI on Your Data](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/concepts/use-your-data). 
- **Limit the length, structure, and rate of inputs and outputs.**  Restricting the length or structure of inputs and outputs can increase the likelihood that the application will stay on task and mitigate, at least in part, any potentially unfair, unreliable, or offensive behavior. Other options to reduce the risk of misuse include (i) restricting the source of inputs (for example, limiting inputs to a particular domain or to authenticated users rather than being open to anyone on the internet) and (ii) implementing usage rate limits. 
- **Encourage human review of outputs prior to publication or dissemination.** With generative AI, there is potential for generating content that might be offensive or not related to the task at hand, even with mitigations in place. To ensure that the generated output meets the task of the user, consider building ways to remind users to review their outputs for quality prior to sharing widely. This practice can reduce many different harms, including offensive material, disinformation, and more. 
- **Implement additional scenario-specific mitigations.**  Refer to the mitigations outlined in [Evaluating and integrating Azure OpenAI for your use](#evaluating-and-integrating-azure-openai-natural-language-and-vision-models-for-your-use) including content moderation strategies. These recommendations do not represent every mitigation required for your application. Newer models such as GPT-4o and reasoning models may provide responses in sensitive scenarios and are more likely to attempt to reduce potentially harmful outputs in their responses rather than refuse to respond altogether. It's important to understand this behavior when evaluating and integrating content moderation for your use case; adjustments to filtering severity may be needed depending on your use case.

#### [Speech models](#tab/speech)

- **Show and tell when designing prompts.** With natural language models and speech models, make it clear to the model what kind of outputs you expect through instructions, examples, or a combination of the two. If you want the model to rank a list of items in alphabetical order or to classify a paragraph by sentiment, show the model that is what you want.
   - **Prompts for the Whisper model in Azure OpenAI service** can help improve model outputs. The following best practices will help you create prompts that best fit your scenario and needs.
     - Consider including a prompt to instruct the model to correct specific words or acronyms that the model often misrecognizes in the audio.   
     - To preserve the context of a file that was split into segments, you might prompt the model with the transcript of the preceding segment. This prompt will make the transcript more accurate, because the model will use the relevant information from the previous audio. The model will only consider the final 224 tokens of the prompt and ignore anything earlier.  
     - The model might skip punctuation in the transcript. Consider using a simple prompt that instructs the model to include punctuation.  
     - The model might also leave out common filler words, for example, hmmm, umm, etc. in the audio. If you want to keep the filler words in your transcript, you might include a prompt that contains them.  
     - Some languages can be written in different ways, such as simplified or traditional Chinese. The model might not always use the writing style that a user wants for their transcript by default. Consider using a prompt to describe your preferred writing style.  
- **Keep your application on topic.**  Carefully structure prompts and image inputs to reduce the chance of producing undesired content, even if a user tries to use it for this purpose. For instance, you might indicate in your prompt that a chatbot only engages in conversations about mathematics and otherwise responds "I'm sorry. I'm afraid I can't answer that." Adding adjectives like "polite" and examples in your desired tone to your prompt can also help steer outputs. 
- **Configure parameters to improve accuracy or groundedness of responses**. Augmenting prompts with data retrieved from trusted sources – such as by using the Azure OpenAI "on your data" feature – can reduce, but not completely eliminate, the likelihood of generating inaccurate responses or false information. Steps you can take to further improve the accuracy of responses include carefully selecting the trusted and relevant data source and configuring custom parameters such as “strictness”, “limit responses to data content” and “number of retrieved documents to be considered” as appropriate to your use cases or scenarios. Learn more about configuring these settings for [Azure OpenAI on Your Data](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/concepts/use-your-data). 
- **Measure model quality.** As part of general model quality, consider measuring and improving fairness-related metrics and other metrics related to responsible AI in addition to traditional accuracy measures for your scenario. Consider resources like this checklist when you measure the fairness of the system. These measurements come with limitations, which you should acknowledge and communicate to stakeholders along with evaluation results. 
- **Limit the length, structure, and rate of inputs and outputs.**  Restricting the length or structure of inputs and outputs can increase the likelihood that the application will stay on task and mitigate, at least in part, any potentially unfair, unreliable, or offensive behavior. Other options to reduce the risk of misuse include (i) restricting the source of inputs (for example, limiting inputs to a particular domain or to authenticated users rather than being open to anyone on the internet) and (ii) implementing usage rate limits. 
- **Encourage human review of outputs prior to publication or dissemination.** With generative AI, there is potential for generating content that might be offensive or not related to the task at hand, even with mitigations in place. To ensure that the generated output meets the task of the user, consider building ways to remind users to review their outputs for quality prior to sharing widely. This practice can reduce many different harms, including offensive material, disinformation, and more. 

---

#### Best practices and recommendations for Azure OpenAI evaluation 

- **Robust ground truth data**: In general in large-scale natural language models, customers should carefully select and pre-process their data to ensure that it's relevant, diverse, and balanced for the intended task and domain. Customers should also remove or anonymize any sensitive or personal information from the data, such as names, addresses, or email addresses, to protect the privacy and security of the data subjects. Customers should also check and correct any errors or inconsistencies in the data, such as spelling, grammar, or formatting, to improve the data quality and readability.  
    Specifically for Azure OpenAI evaluation, the accuracy of the ground truth data provided by the user is crucial because inaccurate ground truth data leads to meaningless and inaccurate evaluation results. Ensuring the quality and reliability of this data is essential for obtaining valid assessments of the model's performance. Inaccurate ground truth data can skew the evaluation metrics, resulting in misleading conclusions about the model's capabilities. Therefore, users must carefully curate and verify their ground truth data to ensure that the evaluation process accurately reflects the model's true performance. This is particularly important when making decisions about deploying the model in real-world applications 
- **Prompt definition for evaluation**: The prompt you use in your evaluation should match the prompt you plan to use in production. These prompts provide the instructions for the model to follow. Similar to the OpenAI playground, you can create multiple inputs to include few-shot examples in your prompt. Refer to [Prompt engineering techniques](/azure/ai-foundry/openai/concepts/prompt-engineering?tabs=chat) for more details on some advanced techniques in prompt design and prompt engineering.  
- **Diverse metrics**: Use a combination of metrics to capture different aspects of performance such as accuracy, fluency and relevance.  
- **Human-in-the-loop**: Integrate human feedback alongside automated evaluation to ensure that subjective nuances are accurately captured. 
- **Transparency**: Clearly communicate the evaluation criteria to users, enabling them to understand how decisions are made.  
- **Continual evaluation and testing**: Continually evaluate the model's performance to identify and address any regressions or negative user experience.

## Evaluating and integrating Azure OpenAI natural language and vision models for your use

#### [Text, code, and fine-tuned models](#tab/text)

The steps in conducting an Azure OpenAI evaluation are: 
1. **Provide data for evaluation**: Either an uploaded flat file in JSONL format, or generated data based on a series of prompts. 
1. **Specify test cases to evaluate the data**: Select one or more test cases to score the provided data with passing / failing grades. 
1. **Review and filter results**: Each test includes a definition of passing and failing scores. After an evaluation runs, users can review their row-by-row results to see individual test results, or filter on passed / failed. 

For additional information on how to evaluate and integrate these models responsibly, please see the [RAI Overview document](/azure/ai-foundry/responsible-ai/openai/overview).

#### [Vision models](#tab/image)

For additional information on how to evaluate and integrate these models responsibly, please see the [RAI Overview document](/azure/ai-foundry/responsible-ai/openai/overview).

#### [Audio / speech models](#tab/speech)

The OpenAI Whisper model is also available within Azure Speech services, enhancing the experience with advanced features like multi-lingual recognition and readability. Depending on your scenario, you might explore [Azure Speech services](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/cognitive-services/speech-to-text/) and the service's additional capabilities like diarization, customization, real-time streaming, or processing multiple audio files per request. For additional information on how to evaluate and integrate the Whisper model responsibly, please see the [Azure Speech services transparency note](/azure/ai-foundry/responsible-ai/speech-service/speech-to-text/transparency-note).

---

## Learn more about responsible AI

- [Microsoft AI principles](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/responsible-ai)
- [Microsoft responsible AI resources](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/responsible-ai-resources) 
- [Microsoft Azure Learning courses on responsible AI](/training/paths/responsible-ai-business-principles/)

## Learn more about Azure OpenAI

- [Limited access to Azure OpenAI Service - Foundry Tools | Microsoft Learn](/azure/ai-foundry/responsible-ai/openai/limited-access) 
- [Code of Conduct for the Azure OpenAI Service | Microsoft Learn](/legal/ai-code-of-conduct?context=%2Fazure%2Fcognitive-services%2Fopenai%2Fcontext%2Fcontext) 
- [Data, privacy, and security for Azure OpenAI Service - Foundry Tools | Microsoft Learn](/azure/ai-foundry/responsible-ai/openai/data-privacy)
