articles/search/cognitive-search-how-to-debug-skillset.md, before:

---
title: Debug a skillset
titleSuffix: Azure AI Search
description: Investigate skillset errors and issues by starting a debug session in Azure portal.

manager: nitinme
author: HeidiSteen
ms.author: heidist
ms.service: cognitive-search
ms.custom:
  - ignite-2023
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 10/19/2022
---

# Debug an Azure AI Search skillset in Azure portal

Start a portal-based debug session to identify and resolve errors, validate changes, and push changes to a published skillset in your Azure AI Search service.

A debug session is a cached indexer and skillset execution, scoped to a single document, that you can use to edit and test your changes interactively. If you're unfamiliar with how a debug session works, see [Debug sessions in Azure AI Search](cognitive-search-debug-session.md). To practice a debug workflow with a sample document, see [Tutorial: Debug sessions](cognitive-search-tutorial-debug-sessions.md).

## Prerequisites

+ An existing enrichment pipeline, including a data source, a skillset, an indexer, and an index. 

+ A **Contributor** role assignment in the search service.

+ An Azure Storage account, used to save session state.

+ A **Storage Blob Data Contributor** role assignment in Azure Storage. 

+ If the Azure Storage account is behind a firewall, configure it to [allow Search service access](search-indexer-howto-access-ip-restricted.md).

## Limitations

A Debug Session works with all generally available [indexer data sources](search-data-sources-gallery.md) and most preview data sources. The following list notes the exceptions:

+ Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB is currently not supported.

+ For the Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL, if a row fails during index and there's no corresponding metadata, the debug session might not pick the correct row.

+ For the SQL API of Azure Cosmos DB, if a partitioned collection was previously non-partitioned, a Debug Session won't find the document.

+ Debug sessions doesn't currently support connections using a managed identity or private endpoints to custom skills.

## Create a debug session

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and find your search service.

1. In the **Overview** page of your search service, select the **Debug Sessions** tab.

1. Select **+ New Debug Session**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/new-debug-session.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the debug sessions commands in the portal page." border="true":::

1. In **Debug session name**, provide a name that will help you remember which skillset, indexer, and data source the debug session is about.

1. In **Storage connection**, find a general-purpose storage account for caching the debug session. You'll be prompted to select and optionally create a blob container in Blob Storage or Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2. You can reuse the same container for all subsequent debug sessions you create. A helpful container name might be "cognitive-search-debug-sessions".

1. In **Indexer template**, select the indexer that drives the skillset you want to debug. Copies of both the indexer and skillset are used to initialize the session.

1. In **Document to debug**, choose the first document in the index or select a specific document. If you select a specific document, depending on the data source, you'll be asked for a URI or a row ID.

   If your specific document is a blob, you'll be asked for the blob URI. You can find the URL in the blob property page in the portal.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/copy-blob-url.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the URI property in blob storage." border="true":::

1. Optionally, in **Indexer settings**, specify any indexer execution settings used to create the session. The settings should mimic the settings used by the actual indexer. Any indexer options that you specify in a debug session have no effect on the indexer itself.

1. Your configuration should look similar to this screenshot. Select **Save Session** to get started.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/debug-session-new.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a debug session page." border="true":::

The debug session begins by executing the indexer and skillset on the selected document. The document's content and metadata created will be visible and available in the session.

A debug session can be canceled while it's executing using the **Cancel** button. If you hit the **Cancel** button you should be able to analyze partial results.

It is expected for a debug session to take longer to execute than the indexer since it goes through extra processing. 


## Start with errors and warnings

Indexer execution history in the portal gives you the full error and warning list for all documents. In a debug session, the errors and warnings will be limited to one document. You'll work through this list, make your changes, and then return to the list to verify whether issues are resolved. 

To view the messages, select a skill in **AI Enrichment > Skill Graph** and then select **Errors/Warnings** in the details pane.

As a best practice, resolve problems with inputs before moving on to outputs.

To prove whether a modification resolves an error, follow these steps:

1. Select **Save** in the skill details pane to preserve your changes.

1. Select **Run** in the session window to invoke skillset execution using the modified definition.

1. Return to **Errors/Warnings** to see if the count is reduced. The list won't be refreshed until you open the tab.

## View content of enrichment nodes

AI enrichment pipelines extract or infer information and structure from source documents, creating an enriched document in the process. An enriched document is first created during document cracking and populated with a root node (`/document`), plus nodes for any content that is lifted directly from the data source, such as metadata and the document key. More nodes are created by skills during skill execution, where each skill output adds a new node to the enrichment tree. 

Enriched documents are internal, but a debug session gives you access to the content produced during skill execution. To view the content or output of each skill, follow these steps:

1. Start with the default views: **AI enrichment > Skill Graph**, with the graph type set to **Dependency Graph**.

1. Select a skill.

1. In the details pane to the right, select **Executions**, select an OUTPUT, and then open the Expression Evaluator (**`</>`**) to view the expression and its result.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/enriched-doc-output-expression.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a skill execution showing output values." border="true":::

1. Alternatively, open **AI enrichment > Enriched Data Structure** to scroll down the list of nodes. The list includes potential and actual nodes, with a column for output, and another column that indicates the upstream object used to produce the output.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/enriched-doc-output.png" alt-text="Screenshot of enriched document showing output values." border="true":::

## Edit skill definitions

If the field mappings are correct, check individual skills for configuration and content. If a skill fails to produce output, it might be missing a property or parameter, which can be determined through error and validation messages. 

Other issues, such as an invalid context or input expression, can be harder to resolve because the error will tell you what is wrong, but not how to fix it. For help with context and input syntax, see [Reference annotations in an Azure AI Search skillset](cognitive-search-concept-annotations-syntax.md#background-concepts). For help with individual messages, see [Troubleshooting common indexer errors and warnings](cognitive-search-common-errors-warnings.md).

The following steps show you how to get information about a skill.

1. In **AI enrichment > Skill Graph**, select a skill. The Skill Details pane opens to the right.

1. Edit a skill definition using either approach:

   + **Skill Settings** if you prefer a visual editor
   + **Skill JSON Editor** to edit the JSON document directly

1. Check the [path syntax for referencing nodes](cognitive-search-concept-annotations-syntax.md) in an enrichment tree. Following are some of the most common input paths:

   + `/document/content` for chunks of text. This node is populated from the blob's content property.
   + `/document/merged_content` for chunks of text in skillets that include Text Merge skill.
   + `/document/normalized_images/*` for text that is recognized or inferred from images.

## Check field mappings

If skills produce output but the search index is empty, check the field mappings. Field mappings specify how content moves out of the pipeline and into a search index.

1. Start with the default views: **AI enrichment > Skill Graph**, with the graph type set to **Dependency Graph**.

1. Select **Field Mappings** near the top. You should find at least the document key that uniquely identifies and associates each search document in the search index with its source document in the data source. 

   If you're importing raw content straight from the data source, bypassing enrichment, you should find those fields in **Field Mappings**.

1. Select **Output Field Mappings** at the bottom of the graph. Here you'll find mappings from skill outputs to target fields in the search index. Unless you used the Import Data wizard, output field mappings are defined manually and could be incomplete or mistyped. 

   Verify that the fields in **Output Field Mappings** exist in the search index as specified, checking for spelling and [enrichment node path syntax](cognitive-search-concept-annotations-syntax.md). 

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/output-field-mappings.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Output Field Mappings node and details." border="true":::

## Debug a custom skill locally

Custom skills can be more challenging to debug because the code runs externally, so the debug session can't be used to debug them. This section describes how to locally debug your Custom Web API skill, debug session, Visual Studio Code and [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/docs). This technique works with custom skills that execute in [Azure Functions](../azure-functions/functions-overview.md) or any other Web Framework that runs locally (for example, [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)).

### Run ngrok

[**ngrok**](https://ngrok.com/docs) is a cross-platform application that can create a tunneling or forwarding URL, so that internet requests reach your local machine. Use ngrok to forward requests from an enrichment pipeline in your search service to your machine to allow local debugging.

1. Install ngrok.

1. Open a terminal and go to the folder with the ngrok executable.

1. Run ngrok with the following command to create a new tunnel:

    ```console
    ngrok http 7071 
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > By default, Azure functions are exposed on 7071. Other tools and configurations might require that you provide a different port.

1. When ngrok starts, copy and save the public forwarding URL for the next step. The forwarding URL is randomly generated.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/ngrok.png" alt-text="Screenshot of ngrok terminal." border="false":::

### Configure in Azure portal

Within the debug session, modify your Custom Web API Skill URI to call the ngrok forwarding URL. Ensure that you append "/api/FunctionName" when using Azure Function for executing the skillset code.

You can edit the skill definition in the portal.

### Test your code

At this point, new requests from your debug session should now be sent to your local Azure Function. You can use breakpoints in your Visual Studio code to debug your code or run step by step.

## Next steps

Now that you understand the layout and capabilities of the Debug Sessions visual editor, try the tutorial for a hands-on experience.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial: Explore Debug sessions](./cognitive-search-tutorial-debug-sessions.md)

Commit message:

Add Tunnelmole as an open source tunnelling option

articles/search/cognitive-search-how-to-debug-skillset.md, after:

---
title: Debug a skillset
titleSuffix: Azure AI Search
description: Investigate skillset errors and issues by starting a debug session in Azure portal.

manager: nitinme
author: HeidiSteen
ms.author: heidist
ms.service: cognitive-search
ms.custom:
  - ignite-2023
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 10/19/2022
---

# Debug an Azure AI Search skillset in Azure portal

Start a portal-based debug session to identify and resolve errors, validate changes, and push changes to a published skillset in your Azure AI Search service.

A debug session is a cached indexer and skillset execution, scoped to a single document, that you can use to edit and test your changes interactively. If you're unfamiliar with how a debug session works, see [Debug sessions in Azure AI Search](cognitive-search-debug-session.md). To practice a debug workflow with a sample document, see [Tutorial: Debug sessions](cognitive-search-tutorial-debug-sessions.md).

## Prerequisites

+ An existing enrichment pipeline, including a data source, a skillset, an indexer, and an index. 

+ A **Contributor** role assignment in the search service.

+ An Azure Storage account, used to save session state.

+ A **Storage Blob Data Contributor** role assignment in Azure Storage. 

+ If the Azure Storage account is behind a firewall, configure it to [allow Search service access](search-indexer-howto-access-ip-restricted.md).

## Limitations

A Debug Session works with all generally available [indexer data sources](search-data-sources-gallery.md) and most preview data sources. The following list notes the exceptions:

+ Azure Cosmos DB for MongoDB is currently not supported.

+ For the Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL, if a row fails during index and there's no corresponding metadata, the debug session might not pick the correct row.

+ For the SQL API of Azure Cosmos DB, if a partitioned collection was previously non-partitioned, a Debug Session won't find the document.

+ Debug sessions doesn't currently support connections using a managed identity or private endpoints to custom skills.

## Create a debug session

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and find your search service.

1. In the **Overview** page of your search service, select the **Debug Sessions** tab.

1. Select **+ New Debug Session**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/new-debug-session.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the debug sessions commands in the portal page." border="true":::

1. In **Debug session name**, provide a name that will help you remember which skillset, indexer, and data source the debug session is about.

1. In **Storage connection**, find a general-purpose storage account for caching the debug session. You'll be prompted to select and optionally create a blob container in Blob Storage or Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2. You can reuse the same container for all subsequent debug sessions you create. A helpful container name might be "cognitive-search-debug-sessions".

1. In **Indexer template**, select the indexer that drives the skillset you want to debug. Copies of both the indexer and skillset are used to initialize the session.

1. In **Document to debug**, choose the first document in the index or select a specific document. If you select a specific document, depending on the data source, you'll be asked for a URI or a row ID.

   If your specific document is a blob, you'll be asked for the blob URI. You can find the URL in the blob property page in the portal.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/copy-blob-url.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the URI property in blob storage." border="true":::

1. Optionally, in **Indexer settings**, specify any indexer execution settings used to create the session. The settings should mimic the settings used by the actual indexer. Any indexer options that you specify in a debug session have no effect on the indexer itself.

1. Your configuration should look similar to this screenshot. Select **Save Session** to get started.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/debug-session-new.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a debug session page." border="true":::

The debug session begins by executing the indexer and skillset on the selected document. The document's content and metadata created will be visible and available in the session.

A debug session can be canceled while it's executing using the **Cancel** button. If you hit the **Cancel** button you should be able to analyze partial results.

It is expected for a debug session to take longer to execute than the indexer since it goes through extra processing. 


## Start with errors and warnings

Indexer execution history in the portal gives you the full error and warning list for all documents. In a debug session, the errors and warnings will be limited to one document. You'll work through this list, make your changes, and then return to the list to verify whether issues are resolved. 

To view the messages, select a skill in **AI Enrichment > Skill Graph** and then select **Errors/Warnings** in the details pane.

As a best practice, resolve problems with inputs before moving on to outputs.

To prove whether a modification resolves an error, follow these steps:

1. Select **Save** in the skill details pane to preserve your changes.

1. Select **Run** in the session window to invoke skillset execution using the modified definition.

1. Return to **Errors/Warnings** to see if the count is reduced. The list won't be refreshed until you open the tab.

## View content of enrichment nodes

AI enrichment pipelines extract or infer information and structure from source documents, creating an enriched document in the process. An enriched document is first created during document cracking and populated with a root node (`/document`), plus nodes for any content that is lifted directly from the data source, such as metadata and the document key. More nodes are created by skills during skill execution, where each skill output adds a new node to the enrichment tree. 

Enriched documents are internal, but a debug session gives you access to the content produced during skill execution. To view the content or output of each skill, follow these steps:

1. Start with the default views: **AI enrichment > Skill Graph**, with the graph type set to **Dependency Graph**.

1. Select a skill.

1. In the details pane to the right, select **Executions**, select an OUTPUT, and then open the Expression Evaluator (**`</>`**) to view the expression and its result.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/enriched-doc-output-expression.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a skill execution showing output values." border="true":::

1. Alternatively, open **AI enrichment > Enriched Data Structure** to scroll down the list of nodes. The list includes potential and actual nodes, with a column for output, and another column that indicates the upstream object used to produce the output.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/enriched-doc-output.png" alt-text="Screenshot of enriched document showing output values." border="true":::

## Edit skill definitions

If the field mappings are correct, check individual skills for configuration and content. If a skill fails to produce output, it might be missing a property or parameter, which can be determined through error and validation messages. 

Other issues, such as an invalid context or input expression, can be harder to resolve because the error will tell you what is wrong, but not how to fix it. For help with context and input syntax, see [Reference annotations in an Azure AI Search skillset](cognitive-search-concept-annotations-syntax.md#background-concepts). For help with individual messages, see [Troubleshooting common indexer errors and warnings](cognitive-search-common-errors-warnings.md).

The following steps show you how to get information about a skill.

1. In **AI enrichment > Skill Graph**, select a skill. The Skill Details pane opens to the right.

1. Edit a skill definition using either approach:

   + **Skill Settings** if you prefer a visual editor
   + **Skill JSON Editor** to edit the JSON document directly

1. Check the [path syntax for referencing nodes](cognitive-search-concept-annotations-syntax.md) in an enrichment tree. Following are some of the most common input paths:

   + `/document/content` for chunks of text. This node is populated from the blob's content property.
   + `/document/merged_content` for chunks of text in skillets that include Text Merge skill.
   + `/document/normalized_images/*` for text that is recognized or inferred from images.

## Check field mappings

If skills produce output but the search index is empty, check the field mappings. Field mappings specify how content moves out of the pipeline and into a search index.

1. Start with the default views: **AI enrichment > Skill Graph**, with the graph type set to **Dependency Graph**.

1. Select **Field Mappings** near the top. You should find at least the document key that uniquely identifies and associates each search document in the search index with its source document in the data source. 

   If you're importing raw content straight from the data source, bypassing enrichment, you should find those fields in **Field Mappings**.

1. Select **Output Field Mappings** at the bottom of the graph. Here you'll find mappings from skill outputs to target fields in the search index. Unless you used the Import Data wizard, output field mappings are defined manually and could be incomplete or mistyped. 

   Verify that the fields in **Output Field Mappings** exist in the search index as specified, checking for spelling and [enrichment node path syntax](cognitive-search-concept-annotations-syntax.md). 

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/output-field-mappings.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Output Field Mappings node and details." border="true":::

## Debug a custom skill locally

Custom skills can be more challenging to debug because the code runs externally, so the debug session can't be used to debug them. This section describes how to locally debug your Custom Web API skill, debug session, Visual Studio Code and [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/docs). This technique works with custom skills that execute in [Azure Functions](../azure-functions/functions-overview.md) or any other Web Framework that runs locally (for example, [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)).

### Get a Public URL

#### Using Tunnelmole
Tunnelmole is an open source tunneling tool that can create a Public URL that forwards to your local machine through a tunnel.

1. Install Tunnelmole
- NPM:  `npm install -g tunnelmole`
- Linux: `curl -s https://tunnelmole.com/sh/install-linux.sh | sudo bash`
- Mac:  `curl -s https://tunnelmole.com/sh/install-mac.sh --output install-mac.sh && sudo bash install-mac.sh`
- Windows: Install with NPM, or if you don't have NodeJS installed, download the precompiled `exe` file for Windows [here](https://tunnelmole.com/downloads/tmole.exe) and put it somewhere in your PATH.

2. Then run this command to create a new tunnel
```console
➜  ~ tmole 7071
http://m5hdpb-ip-49-183-170-144.tunnelmole.net is forwarding to localhost:7071
https://m5hdpb-ip-49-183-170-144.tunnelmole.net is forwarding to localhost:7071
```

In the above example, `https://m5hdpb-ip-49-183-170-144.tunnelmole.net` forwards to port `7071` on your local machine, which is the default port Azure functions are exposed on.

#### Using ngrok

[**ngrok**](https://ngrok.com/docs) is a popular, closed source, cross-platform application that can create a tunneling or forwarding URL, so that internet requests reach your local machine. Use ngrok to forward requests from an enrichment pipeline in your search service to your machine to allow local debugging.

1. Install ngrok.

2. Open a terminal and go to the folder with the ngrok executable.

3. Run ngrok with the following command to create a new tunnel:

    ```console
    ngrok http 7071 
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > By default, Azure functions are exposed on 7071. Other tools and configurations might require that you provide a different port.

4. When ngrok starts, copy and save the public forwarding URL for the next step. The forwarding URL is randomly generated.

   :::image type="content" source="media/cognitive-search-debug/ngrok.png" alt-text="Screenshot of ngrok terminal." border="false":::

### Configure in Azure portal

Within the debug session, modify your Custom Web API Skill URI to call the tunnelmole or ngrok forwarding URL. Ensure that you append "/api/FunctionName" when using Azure Function for executing the skillset code.

You can edit the skill definition in the portal.

### Test your code

At this point, new requests from your debug session should now be sent to your local Azure Function. You can use breakpoints in your Visual Studio code to debug your code or run step by step.

## Next steps

Now that you understand the layout and capabilities of the Debug Sessions visual editor, try the tutorial for a hands-on experience.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Tutorial: Explore Debug sessions](./cognitive-search-tutorial-debug-sessions.md)
