articles/search/cognitive-search-custom-skill-web-api.md, before:

---
title: Custom Web API skill in skillsets
titleSuffix: Azure AI Search
description: Extend capabilities of Azure AI Search skillsets by calling out to Web APIs. Use the Custom Web API skill to integrate your custom code.
author: gmndrg
ms.author: gimondra
ms.service: cognitive-search
ms.custom:
  - ignite-2023
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 08/20/2022
---

# Custom Web API skill in an Azure AI Search enrichment pipeline

The **Custom Web API** skill allows you to extend AI enrichment by calling out to a Web API endpoint providing custom operations. Similar to built-in skills, a **Custom Web API** skill has inputs and outputs. Depending on the inputs, your Web API receives a JSON payload when the indexer runs, and outputs a JSON payload as a response, along with a success status code. The response is expected to have the outputs specified by your custom skill. Any other response is considered an error and no enrichments are performed.

The structure of the JSON payload is described further down in this document.

> [!NOTE]
> The indexer will retry twice for certain standard HTTP status codes returned from the Web API. These HTTP status codes are: 
> * `502 Bad Gateway`
> * `503 Service Unavailable`
> * `429 Too Many Requests`

## @odata.type

Microsoft.Skills.Custom.WebApiSkill

## Skill parameters

Parameters are case-sensitive.

| Parameter name	 | Description |
|--------------------|-------------|
| `uri` | The URI of the Web API to which the JSON payload will be sent. Only the **https** URI scheme is allowed. |
| `authResourceId` | (Optional) A string that if set, indicates that this skill should use a managed identity on the connection to the function or app hosting the code. The value of this property is the application (client) ID of the function or app's registration in Microsoft Entra ID. This value will be used to scope the authentication token retrieved by the indexer, and will be sent along with the custom Web skill API request to the function or app. Setting this property requires that your search service is [configured for managed identity](search-howto-managed-identities-data-sources.md) and your Azure function app is [configured for a Microsoft Entra login](../app-service/configure-authentication-provider-aad.md). |
| `httpMethod` | The method to use while sending the payload. Allowed methods are `PUT` or `POST` |
| `httpHeaders` | A collection of key-value pairs where the keys represent header names and values represent header values that will be sent to your Web API along with the payload. The following headers are prohibited from being in this collection:  `Accept`, `Accept-Charset`, `Accept-Encoding`, `Content-Length`, `Content-Type`, `Cookie`, `Host`, `TE`, `Upgrade`, `Via`. |
| `timeout` | (Optional) When specified, indicates the timeout for the http client making the API call. It must be formatted as an XSD "dayTimeDuration" value (a restricted subset of an [ISO 8601 duration](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema11-2/#dayTimeDuration) value). For example, `PT60S` for 60 seconds. If not set, a default value of 30 seconds is chosen. The timeout can be set to a maximum of 230 seconds and a minimum of 1 second. |
| `batchSize` | (Optional) Indicates how many "data records" (see JSON payload structure below) will be sent per API call. If not set, a default of 1000 is chosen. We recommend that you make use of this parameter to achieve a suitable tradeoff between indexing throughput and load on your API. |
| `degreeOfParallelism` | (Optional) When specified, indicates the number of calls the indexer will make in parallel to the endpoint you have provided. You can decrease this value if your endpoint is failing under pressure, or raise it if your endpoint can handle the load.  If not set, a default value of 5 is used. The `degreeOfParallelism` can be set to a maximum of 10 and a minimum of 1. |

## Skill inputs

There are no predefined inputs for this skill. The inputs are any existing field, or any [node in the enrichment tree](cognitive-search-working-with-skillsets.md#enrichment-tree) that you want to pass to your custom skill.

## Skill outputs

There are no predefined outputs for this skill. Be sure to [define an output field mapping](cognitive-search-output-field-mapping.md) in the indexer if the skill's output should be sent to a field in the search index.

## Sample definition

```json
{
  "@odata.type": "#Microsoft.Skills.Custom.WebApiSkill",
  "description": "A custom skill that can identify positions of different phrases in the source text",
  "uri": "https://contoso.count-things.com",
  "batchSize": 4,
  "context": "/document",
  "inputs": [
    {
      "name": "text",
      "source": "/document/content"
    },
    {
      "name": "language",
      "source": "/document/languageCode"
    },
    {
      "name": "phraseList",
      "source": "/document/keyphrases"
    }
  ],
  "outputs": [
    {
      "name": "hitPositions"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Sample input JSON structure

This JSON structure represents the payload that will be sent to your Web API.
It will always follow these constraints:

* The top-level entity is called `values` and will be an array of objects. The number of such objects will be at most the `batchSize`.

* Each object in the `values` array will have:

  * A `recordId` property that is a **unique** string, used to identify that record.

  * A `data` property that is a JSON object. The fields of the `data` property will correspond to the "names" specified in the `inputs` section of the skill definition. The value of those fields will be from the `source` of those fields (which could be from a field in the document, or potentially from another skill).

```json
{
    "values": [
      {
        "recordId": "0",
        "data":
           {
             "text": "Este es un contrato en Inglés",
             "language": "es",
             "phraseList": ["Este", "Inglés"]
           }
      },
      {
        "recordId": "1",
        "data":
           {
             "text": "Hello world",
             "language": "en",
             "phraseList": ["Hi"]
           }
      },
      {
        "recordId": "2",
        "data":
           {
             "text": "Hello world, Hi world",
             "language": "en",
             "phraseList": ["world"]
           }
      },
      {
        "recordId": "3",
        "data":
           {
             "text": "Test",
             "language": "es",
             "phraseList": []
           }
      }
    ]
}
```

## Sample output JSON structure

The "output" corresponds to the response returned from your Web API. The Web API should only return a JSON payload (verified by looking at the `Content-Type` response header) and should satisfy the following constraints:

* There should be a top-level entity called `values` which should be an array of objects.

* The number of objects in the array should be the same as the number of objects sent to the Web API.

* Each object should have:

  * A `recordId` property.

  * A `data` property, which is an object where the fields are enrichments matching the "names" in the `output` and whose value is considered the enrichment.

  * An `errors` property, an array listing any errors encountered that will be added to the indexer execution history. This property is required, but can have a `null` value.

  * A `warnings` property, an array listing any warnings encountered that will be added to the indexer execution history. This property is required, but can have a `null` value.

* The ordering of objects in the `values` in either the request or response isn't important. However, the `recordId` is used for correlation so any record in the response containing a `recordId` which was not part of the original request to the Web API will be discarded.

```json
{
    "values": [
        {
            "recordId": "3",
            "data": {
            },
            "errors": [
              {
                "message" : "'phraseList' should not be null or empty"
              }
            ],
            "warnings": null
        },
        {
            "recordId": "2",
            "data": {
                "hitPositions": [6, 16]
            },
            "errors": null,
            "warnings": null
        },
        {
            "recordId": "0",
            "data": {
                "hitPositions": [0, 23]
            },
            "errors": null,
            "warnings": null
        },
        {
            "recordId": "1",
            "data": {
                "hitPositions": []
            },
            "errors": null,
            "warnings": {
                "message": "No occurrences of 'Hi' were found in the input text"
            }
        },
    ]
}

```

## Error cases

In addition to your Web API being unavailable, or sending out non-successful status codes the following are considered erroneous cases:

* If the Web API returns a success status code but the response indicates that it is not `application/json` then the response is considered invalid and no enrichments will be performed.

* If there are invalid records (for example, `recordId` is missing or duplicated) in the response `values` array, no enrichment will be performed for the invalid records.

For cases when the Web API is unavailable or returns an HTTP error, a friendly error with any available details about the HTTP error will be added to the indexer execution history.

## See also

+ [How to define a skillset](cognitive-search-defining-skillset.md)
+ [Add custom skill to an AI enrichment pipeline](cognitive-search-custom-skill-interface.md)
+ [Example: Creating a custom skill for AI enrichment](cognitive-search-create-custom-skill-example.md)

Commit message:

Improve description for parameter authResourceId in cognitive-search-custom-skill-web-api page

articles/search/cognitive-search-custom-skill-web-api.md, after:

---
title: Custom Web API skill in skillsets
titleSuffix: Azure AI Search
description: Extend capabilities of Azure AI Search skillsets by calling out to Web APIs. Use the Custom Web API skill to integrate your custom code.
author: gmndrg
ms.author: gimondra
ms.service: cognitive-search
ms.custom:
  - ignite-2023
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 08/20/2022
---

# Custom Web API skill in an Azure AI Search enrichment pipeline

The **Custom Web API** skill allows you to extend AI enrichment by calling out to a Web API endpoint providing custom operations. Similar to built-in skills, a **Custom Web API** skill has inputs and outputs. Depending on the inputs, your Web API receives a JSON payload when the indexer runs, and outputs a JSON payload as a response, along with a success status code. The response is expected to have the outputs specified by your custom skill. Any other response is considered an error and no enrichments are performed.

The structure of the JSON payload is described further down in this document.

> [!NOTE]
> The indexer will retry twice for certain standard HTTP status codes returned from the Web API. These HTTP status codes are: 
> * `502 Bad Gateway`
> * `503 Service Unavailable`
> * `429 Too Many Requests`

## @odata.type

Microsoft.Skills.Custom.WebApiSkill

## Skill parameters

Parameters are case-sensitive.

| Parameter name	 | Description |
|--------------------|-------------|
| `uri` | The URI of the Web API to which the JSON payload will be sent. Only the **https** URI scheme is allowed. |
| `authResourceId` | (Optional) A string that if set, indicates that this skill should use a managed identity on the connection to the function or app hosting the code. This property takes an application (client) ID or app's registration in Microsoft Entra ID, in a [supported format](../active-directory/develop/security-best-practices-for-app-registration.md#application-id-uri): `api://<appId>`. This value will be used to scope the authentication token retrieved by the indexer, and will be sent along with the custom Web skill API request to the function or app. Setting this property requires that your search service is [configured for managed identity](search-howto-managed-identities-data-sources.md) and your Azure function app is [configured for a Microsoft Entra login](../app-service/configure-authentication-provider-aad.md). To use this parameter, call the API with `api-version=2023-10-01-Preview`. |
| `httpMethod` | The method to use while sending the payload. Allowed methods are `PUT` or `POST` |
| `httpHeaders` | A collection of key-value pairs where the keys represent header names and values represent header values that will be sent to your Web API along with the payload. The following headers are prohibited from being in this collection:  `Accept`, `Accept-Charset`, `Accept-Encoding`, `Content-Length`, `Content-Type`, `Cookie`, `Host`, `TE`, `Upgrade`, `Via`. |
| `timeout` | (Optional) When specified, indicates the timeout for the http client making the API call. It must be formatted as an XSD "dayTimeDuration" value (a restricted subset of an [ISO 8601 duration](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema11-2/#dayTimeDuration) value). For example, `PT60S` for 60 seconds. If not set, a default value of 30 seconds is chosen. The timeout can be set to a maximum of 230 seconds and a minimum of 1 second. |
| `batchSize` | (Optional) Indicates how many "data records" (see JSON payload structure below) will be sent per API call. If not set, a default of 1000 is chosen. We recommend that you make use of this parameter to achieve a suitable tradeoff between indexing throughput and load on your API. |
| `degreeOfParallelism` | (Optional) When specified, indicates the number of calls the indexer will make in parallel to the endpoint you have provided. You can decrease this value if your endpoint is failing under pressure, or raise it if your endpoint can handle the load.  If not set, a default value of 5 is used. The `degreeOfParallelism` can be set to a maximum of 10 and a minimum of 1. |

## Skill inputs

There are no predefined inputs for this skill. The inputs are any existing field, or any [node in the enrichment tree](cognitive-search-working-with-skillsets.md#enrichment-tree) that you want to pass to your custom skill.

## Skill outputs

There are no predefined outputs for this skill. Be sure to [define an output field mapping](cognitive-search-output-field-mapping.md) in the indexer if the skill's output should be sent to a field in the search index.

## Sample definition

```json
{
  "@odata.type": "#Microsoft.Skills.Custom.WebApiSkill",
  "description": "A custom skill that can identify positions of different phrases in the source text",
  "uri": "https://contoso.count-things.com",
  "batchSize": 4,
  "context": "/document",
  "inputs": [
    {
      "name": "text",
      "source": "/document/content"
    },
    {
      "name": "language",
      "source": "/document/languageCode"
    },
    {
      "name": "phraseList",
      "source": "/document/keyphrases"
    }
  ],
  "outputs": [
    {
      "name": "hitPositions"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Sample input JSON structure

This JSON structure represents the payload that will be sent to your Web API.
It will always follow these constraints:

* The top-level entity is called `values` and will be an array of objects. The number of such objects will be at most the `batchSize`.

* Each object in the `values` array will have:

  * A `recordId` property that is a **unique** string, used to identify that record.

  * A `data` property that is a JSON object. The fields of the `data` property will correspond to the "names" specified in the `inputs` section of the skill definition. The value of those fields will be from the `source` of those fields (which could be from a field in the document, or potentially from another skill).

```json
{
    "values": [
      {
        "recordId": "0",
        "data":
           {
             "text": "Este es un contrato en Inglés",
             "language": "es",
             "phraseList": ["Este", "Inglés"]
           }
      },
      {
        "recordId": "1",
        "data":
           {
             "text": "Hello world",
             "language": "en",
             "phraseList": ["Hi"]
           }
      },
      {
        "recordId": "2",
        "data":
           {
             "text": "Hello world, Hi world",
             "language": "en",
             "phraseList": ["world"]
           }
      },
      {
        "recordId": "3",
        "data":
           {
             "text": "Test",
             "language": "es",
             "phraseList": []
           }
      }
    ]
}
```

## Sample output JSON structure

The "output" corresponds to the response returned from your Web API. The Web API should only return a JSON payload (verified by looking at the `Content-Type` response header) and should satisfy the following constraints:

* There should be a top-level entity called `values` which should be an array of objects.

* The number of objects in the array should be the same as the number of objects sent to the Web API.

* Each object should have:

  * A `recordId` property.

  * A `data` property, which is an object where the fields are enrichments matching the "names" in the `output` and whose value is considered the enrichment.

  * An `errors` property, an array listing any errors encountered that will be added to the indexer execution history. This property is required, but can have a `null` value.

  * A `warnings` property, an array listing any warnings encountered that will be added to the indexer execution history. This property is required, but can have a `null` value.

* The ordering of objects in the `values` in either the request or response isn't important. However, the `recordId` is used for correlation so any record in the response containing a `recordId` which was not part of the original request to the Web API will be discarded.

```json
{
    "values": [
        {
            "recordId": "3",
            "data": {
            },
            "errors": [
              {
                "message" : "'phraseList' should not be null or empty"
              }
            ],
            "warnings": null
        },
        {
            "recordId": "2",
            "data": {
                "hitPositions": [6, 16]
            },
            "errors": null,
            "warnings": null
        },
        {
            "recordId": "0",
            "data": {
                "hitPositions": [0, 23]
            },
            "errors": null,
            "warnings": null
        },
        {
            "recordId": "1",
            "data": {
                "hitPositions": []
            },
            "errors": null,
            "warnings": {
                "message": "No occurrences of 'Hi' were found in the input text"
            }
        },
    ]
}

```

## Error cases

In addition to your Web API being unavailable, or sending out non-successful status codes the following are considered erroneous cases:

* If the Web API returns a success status code but the response indicates that it is not `application/json` then the response is considered invalid and no enrichments will be performed.

* If there are invalid records (for example, `recordId` is missing or duplicated) in the response `values` array, no enrichment will be performed for the invalid records.

For cases when the Web API is unavailable or returns an HTTP error, a friendly error with any available details about the HTTP error will be added to the indexer execution history.

## See also

+ [How to define a skillset](cognitive-search-defining-skillset.md)
+ [Add custom skill to an AI enrichment pipeline](cognitive-search-custom-skill-interface.md)
+ [Example: Creating a custom skill for AI enrichment](cognitive-search-create-custom-skill-example.md)
